
# CHAPTER ONE - THE PROBLEM

## Techvolution Wanted

The Digital Revolution started decades ago. Computers, the internet, 3D printing, and other wondrous tech, is even more transformative than the telescope or gun because they improve exponentially faster. The Digital Revolution is changing our society every day, yet we haven’t changed our ruling philosophy one bit to keep up.

- because of so many DB's, we have an excess of tech upgrades waiting to happen
- this either builds up a revolution, or we can have a techvolution

I’ll define our ruling philosophy in detail within this book. I’m sure you already know what it is. You’ve seen it on cable news in the yelling matches between staunch conservatives or progressives, or on the business channel with people obsessing over stock prices. Our ruling philosophy was invented before the digital revolution happened. Now it’s trying to rule over a society it can’t understand.

For example, when we want “higher” or advanced education, our ruling philosophy (progressives and conservatives) says get a university degree. A system hundreds of years old, based on paper books and experts to teach their contents, who decree their nobility on graduates with a degree. So strong is this expectaction that primiary education is geared toward university preparation instead of actual primary education like understanding loan agreements, home repair, or sewing. The university system has disagreements progressives and conservatives love to argue about, like limited access, easy disagreements on who should get in, and who pays for the enormous expense of professors, lecture halls, administration staff, libraries, residences, textbooks, and of course interest payments on loans that fittingly students still often don't understand.

The digital revolution says limited access to books, experts, and learning is bullshit. Instead, login to Khan Academy or Udemy and study by yourself. Ask and answer questions with your equals on Quora, contribute what you know to Wikipedia, and watch a YouTube lecture if you need it. If you write computer code, put it on GitHub for anyone else to review, share, and improve. If you write a novel or essay, put it on a website. If you make an app put it on the AppStore. The internet provides open and nearly free access to knowledge and experts; and everyone can contribute to make it better. The exclusive university ball should not disappear in the digital economy, but nor does it need a line-up either.

Yet we don’t recognize non-university expertise. Thus, we tell our youth to follow our ruling philosophy and its right of passage to spend years learning at university with no clear purpose but a guarantee of extreme debt chasing “graduates” around for their lives. Dropouts like Bill Gates, Henry Ford, Mark Zuckerberg, Larry Page, Elon Musk, Steve Jobs, and Ralph Lauren are considered exceptions to the rule, maverick geniuses, and “that guy” you can’t be. Yet all they did was ignore society’s ruling philosophy when they needed to.

Our ruling philosophy is causing more social upheavals than just student debt. The rallies for and against Donald Trump, personal isolation, job losses, the hatred between progressives and conservatives, housing bursts and bubbles, government debt crises, climate change, wealth disparity, growing mental illness, and increasing human migrations, are all because we aren’t updating our ruling philosophy, and blaming each other for the consequences. Our stubbornness is building up a vicious civil war like lava rising under a volcano.

Since we’re arriving late, there’s no way to prevent these problems. We can however, use methods of techvolution to prevent an eruption. For example with student debt, we change our ruling philosophy and erase university programs for stuff already possible to learn, and build upon, on the internet. And instead of individuals deferring to a “divine degree”, we reward experts based on their merit in making a real world difference with their openly available and free GitHub computer software, or teaching a class on YouTube.

And on we go, tracking real-world achievements, and pointing them at other luxurious banquets and balls of our nobility. A full techvolution will require bypassing the ruling philosophy, writing the philosophy of tomorrow, and putting it into the technology of today. We’ll go into great detail in this book. You’ll be a part of it. The biggest hurdle is empowering today’s Cinderellas to see their ruling philosophy as dated, the cause of their social problems, and that it’s not worth for them to wait for an invitation to one of the world’s award shows, galas, graduations or corporate retreats, because today’s Cinderellas should be collaborating with their equals to build a better society.

If you are in the “ruling nobility”, you aren’t a bad person. In fact, you’re needed, because there’s lots more money, fame, wealth, and glory in the digital economy then our dying one. Nobody sings songs about the old nobility, except maybe in fairy tales. But Rousseau, Jefferson, Locke, have their ideals song in national anthems we sing from childhood to our last breaths on the battlefield. The choice is yours. If you want to keep pretending the digital economy doesn’t need a new ruling philosophy, then you best watch lots of movies on civil wars, revolutions, and natural disasters with your kids. They’ll need it to survive the world our delays are causing.

You’re not getting more info than that until you read the rest of this book. :)

## How Good Storytelling Enables Techvolution

For years, I’ve studied history, technology, storytelling, and political philosophy, both in the academic setting of a university and—more importantly—in practice, while living a regular middle-class life of trying to make the rent. All the studying eventually revealed to me a similar story: a pattern inside the ruling philosophy of every society before and after it had a revolution. Being happy with a middle class life meant never getting sidetracked by the luxurious banquets and balls of today’s society. Perhaps a talent for abstract reasoning helped me unlock the nature of revolutions.

Storytelling was the key to mastering revolutions. I’ll give you an example by delving more into the Rousseau versus nobility drama that played out in the French Revolution.

First, I need to explain some basics of good cinematic storytelling. A movie is based on a plot that features a protagonist trying to solve a problem through a series of events, and an antagonist who wants to keep things the same. So, Cinderella wants to go to the ball and her evil step-family doesn’t want her to. Both main characters and their supporters fight over the problem until the conclusion, where we find out which side will win. Will the glass slipper fit Cinderella or an evil step-sister? Oh the drama, because whoever has the perfect fit, gets to marry the prince!

In good storytelling, be it fairy tale, romance, or comedy, the sequence of events must be unexpected enough to be interesting, yet logical enough to be believable. Balancing the two is the art of good storytelling.

So, we watch and read stories to be surprised. At the same time, we need the story to be logical to a certain extent. That means every story element, plot, backstory, dialogue etc. needs a reason to exist, even if we don’t initially understand it while watching the movie. And here’s the connection with techvolution. Because understanding all the reasoning hidden in stories, helps us understand all the reasoning hidden in our society.

Life is a story full of problems, from finding water to understanding calculus. And life solves problems with technology. Technology is thus the goal of characters in real life. We’re seeking the glass slipper that will solve our problems. We dig a well to get water, or watch a YouTube video to understand calculus. An invented technology is a problem solved, letting us move onto to a new problem and a new story.

Society’s technological development is a woven tapestry of millions of personal stories. It’s important to note, I use technology as a catchall term for any tool, be it material like a bucket, structural like a building, or biological like a hand, that life uses to solve a problem.

Society is thus a series of stories, a woven tapestry, where we continually invent technology. This could be two people digging a latrine, or thousands inventing nuclear power. The greater the technology, like metal swords, castles, or nuclear power, the harder it is for people to see the reason of their individual story, and thus appreciate the contributions they make in their daily lives. That’s sad because we all should be proud of our contributions. But we’re not there yet.

This inability to see “high enough”, to see the reason of our daily stories, is where a ruling philosophy enters. All stories have a backstory; the deep convictions and motivations of the story and its characters. Think of Cinderella being abused by her evil step-family. Or the eternal struggle of Jedi vs. Sith in Star Wars. Backstory isn’t created by anyone in the story, it already exists and obeyed by every character.

For example, Jedi and Sith soldiers don’t drink beers together, then decide if they’ll be friends or not. They see each other and start shooting. Both sides follow the backstory until something changes. And that’s who protagonists are. They rise above the backstory, realize a different world, and fight for it. If they win, like Cinderella getting married, or Luke Skywalker destroying the Death Star, they win because they changed the backstory and made a new reality.

Backstory in stories, is the ruling philosophy in real life. The ruling philosophy is the unseen motivation of people in society. Philosophers, trailblazers, scientists, and inventors are life’s protagonists. The ones who rise about the backstory, and fight for a new reality. And “the nobility” are the antagonists, who want to keep the status quo.

This book, Techvolution, will teach you how to understand daily human life as a woven tapestry of stories, all working to solve problems, so we’ll see our ruling philosophy as the backstory it actually is, and thus something we can question and change when we need to move on to a new story/problem.

We need this ability for techvolution. Even today, in a world where we take pictures of black holes, there are people who scream at political rallies, bully their employees, and think the Earth is flat. We are characters who don’t understand our own backstories/ruling philosophies.

Here’s how this applies to Rousseau and the nobility. Because the philosophy of “divine nobility” was the backstory, the nobility were the antagonists, and Rousseau was the protagonist, becayse he wanted to change the ruling philosophy.

Before the European nobility listened to Mozart and partied in palaces in the 1700’s, they warred in battlefields, protecting society in the 700’s. The original nobility were warriors who got their power when they slowly re-established organized government after western Rome collapsed in 476 and anarchy ruled the land. Beloved warriors like Charles Martel, Alfred the Great, and Charlemagne fought off Vikings, barbarians, and anarchy. Cinderella didn’t dream about luxurious balls then. Rather she accepted the divinity of nobility because freedom from theft, rape and anarchy, was like heaven on Earth.

Between 476 to about 900, the collapse of the western Roman Empire was the backstory in western Europe. Everyone was motivated to re-establish government, taxes, roadways, irrigation, and most of all security. Damned barbarians and vandals were everywhere! The protagonists, like Charlemagne, stood above the backstory, and fought for a better world. The conclusion of the many individual stories throughout the centuries was the many technologies that would return civilization to the land. Swords, armour, organized government, roads, canals, libraries, markets, and most of all castles to hide behind.

Fast forward a thousand of years when Charles Perrault wrote the fairy tale of Cinderella in 1697, and we start a new story in Western Europe. One with no barbarians and no anarchy. This region had peace and prosperity not seen since the Roman Empire. Civil government was re-established, canals irrigated many productive farms, printing presses spread knowledge and learning, and the gun let anyone protect themselves. But the nobility still ruled. Because the backstory of the “divine rights of the nobility” was unchanged since the time of Charlemagne. The unchallenged nobility used their power to build palaces to host banquets and balls that used up an estimated 25-50% of Frances resources. For comparison the US military need about 6%. Divinity was bankrupt. And the nobility even excempted themselves from taxes!

Rousseau, and others like John Locke and Thomas Jefferson, were protagonists calling bullshit. They said society’s backstory was wrong. Like Cinderella, they stood above it, and said the nobles aren’t special anymore.

The nobility was the antagonist. They liked the backstory, and wanted to keep Cinderella in her place. It’s vital to understand the nobility really believed they were helping society like their ancient forefathers did. Here’s one noble, Britain’s King Charles I, last words in 1649. He had just fought a 10 year civil war to prevent parliament controlling the country’s budget. The people were so enraged they sentenced him to death, and yet still he didn’t understand why:

>Truly I desire their (the people’s) liberty and freedom as much as anybody whomsoever; but I must tell you their liberty and freedom consist in having of government, those laws by which their life and their goods may be most their own. It is not for having a share in government, Sir, that is nothing pertaining to them. A subject and a ruler are clear different things...therefore I tell you that I am the Martyr of the people.

Even through Charles was about to get his head cut off, he didn’t even plea for his life. Because he, like us all, didn’t understand his role in the story of life. In fact, the ruling philosophy he died defending, the nobles divine right to rule, was invented to get western Europe out of anarchy and re-establish civilization. Once anarchy was erased, so should have been the divinity of the nobles who erased it.

It was kind of unfair to expect King Charles I or King Louis XVI to suddenly disregard a 1,000 year-old backstory about their noble divinity. In techvolution, we wouldn’t even ask them. We’d give a leader, sheriff, or executive, authority based on meeting real-world statistics like murder rates, or profitability, and thus build a conclusion into the ruler’s story. We could still award “divinity” status to people, but only on merit. Especially when they invented technology that erased the problem, like malnutrition, cancer, barbarian invasions, from the human story, so we can move onto something else in our beautiful tapestry of stories.

History tends to repeat itself, often with bad repercussions, often lashing back at us because we refuse to learn our lessons. One of the issues of modern-day society is that of climate change.

Worldwide, both progressives and conservatives usually say they want to fight climate change. They each have had many chances to do something ever since climate change was discovered in the 1980s. As is typical, the policies of progressives and conservatives span years and are impossible to track. So no government climate change policy is tracked. And the climate keeps changing. As members of the ruling philosophy, progressive and conservative ideologies get away with blaming each other for climate change. Climate change keeps increasing because we don’t change the ruling philosophy. The climate change story remains ingrained in a looping backstory.

Enter techvolution via digital technology. The difference is that we can now track the problem, the story of climate change—not in grand policies of four-year government terms, but daily in micro stories. Now we can track how much carbon the atmosphere can handle in parts per million (PPM), and how much carbon we’re putting in the air every day, and then find out the details about who is lowering carbon emissions or not. Now we can track the companies forcing their employees to drive to work everyday, we can track who is buying the most gas, we can punish drivers who cause accidents and huge traffic delays. Moreover, we can tell how another policy—say, immigration rates or education subsidies—effects carbon emissions. All in micro-stories, not huge stories that are so hard for individuals to comprehend; like the French nobility slowly driving their country into bankruptcy over generations and into a head on collision for a massive revolution. Techvolution avoids this all because we see ourselves in amazing detail, reminiscent of when Galileo looking at the universe for the first time through his telescope.

Learning the trends of the recurring human story of inventing new technology to solve our daily problems, and that technology giving us new options to insert into our society’s DNA, eventually changing our ruling philosophy, taught me revolutions were caused by our inability to see, understand, and master the philosophy that controls our way of life. Small incremental changes are the definition of techvolution. I don’t want to erase either protagonists, or antagonists, just empower both to engage more often, to collaborate to a shared goal, like in comedies and romances, instead of the war stories and horrors of typical revolutions. Doesn’t our planet and don’t our future generations deserve a happily ever after?

## Enlisting in a Tech(re)volution

I didn’t just study techvolution , I started one. I run a little tech company, a member of the Digital Revolution. My team and I connect customers and front-line workers to help them collaborate. Our clients include drivers working with car insurance adjusters, and homeowners helping their plumber take photos of the leaking faucet to save a trip. My company helps the middle class collaborate and solve real-life problems faster, cheaper, and with less need for management, advertising, and agents (i.e. the nobility). We cut away at the “banquets and balls” of our economy and save loads of money. This book fuses my experience in building a company that empowers the middle class with my philosophy of why revolutions happen.

In fact, some of the best lessons have not come from inside books, but from real life experiences. Reading about revolutions, technological changes, and ruling philosophies is one thing; seeing it firsthand is amazingly cool. Once a regular person harnesses the power of digital technology, it’s like putting on the glass slipper. A new world of opportunities suddenly appears.

That’s because the daily problems the middle class hates, are solved so easily by modern technology. Because learning the power of digital technology teaches us we can all start dreaming of a world where Cinderella and her prince do belong together, and not of traffic jams, outsourcing, and unpaid overtime.

Technology like artificial intelligence, super computers, high-resolution screens, satellite tracking, 30 megapixel cameras, high-speed internet, that used to be classified or held behind vaults, can be bought for pennies by anyone with an laptop, and internet connection, and a subscription to a Internet Cloud Services account; i.e. by everyone. It’s so easy to solve today’s drudgery.

I feel like screaming it from the rafters sometimes: Do you copy! Do you read me! Anyone can drink fresh water! Everyone can have their own castle! We all own our own futures! We all have the potential to revamp our life… once we rethink our backstory and change our ruling philosophy.

Oh, I also learned something cool. Time travel is real! Although I expected today’s management culture to be like the old “divine nobility”, I didn’t realize it would be the same. Not until I lived it. Today’s managers, executives, and agents are sometimes good people, but they’re incentivized to resist tech upgrades, to antagonize a better world, and thereby cause massive problems.

When was the last time you ever had a leaky pipe, a stolen car, or chest pains and you said “Call me an executive!” Has anyone ever asked “You know any good regional managers?”. I haven’t only studied princes, dukes, and barons I’ve met them, worked with some, and tried to work with others. It was like interviewing the past.

Like the old nobility, ours presumes to be the deciders of society’s DNA. And thus, when building my company they couldn’t understand why they weren’t being sold to, pampered, and flattered. We solve front-line, real-life problems, and we since we use digital technology, we didn’t need to ask for permission, so we didn’t.

And that’s the ultimate lesson of revolutions, and the key to techvolution. New technology doesn’t replace or threaten middle class workers. Plumbers, adjusters, nurses, cleaners, tool-makers, seamstresses, tailors, front-line workers help people solve real-life problems. They use tools to help people, and thus they love it when transformative technology gives them new and better tools.

It’s nobility that is replaced by new technology. The ruler’s authority, like the ruling philosophy, expires upon the invention of new technology. The nobility rises again, and I’ll explain the process in the book, but real-life problem solvers never go out of fashion. And that’s why the nobility resist the inevitable change of new technology, like guns, telescopes, and smartphones, enables. This resistance causes revolutions, and bypassing the endless meetings, delays, and misunderstandings of the nobility it is the key to techvolution.

But because of the nobility’s control, we think we’re supposed to be replacing front-line jobs. We outsource, downsize, offshore, but we’re supposed to be empowering real jobs and using modern technology to replace most of management, advertising, and salesmanship.

We should also be careful. When the French Revolution got rid of all nobles and priests, France suffered greatly. It turns out the nobility were good for something. They were often the ones who knew how the canal schedules worked, how to convert currency, or arrange a trade deal. But these nobles were the “involved ones”. The one’s who were nearest to the daily problems that rulers, and their philosophy, are supposed to master. They were also the most reformed minded when the people asked for changes. The nobility’s biggest problem wasn’t the positions they held inside daily life, most were soon replaced be elected authorities with similar power, it was their belief in inherited rights, refusal to pay taxes, and the grotesque amount of money they spent on themselves at their many banquet and balls.

However, asking nobility to upgrade and change is like asking which zebra wants to cross the river first when the herd thinks that there’s a lion on the other side. But this doesn’t matter anymore. That’s why the digital revolution presents an opportunity no revolution has had before. The people don’t have to ask to democratize. Digital technology is so powerful, so easy to access, and so easy to adopt, the people can use their right to buy whatever they want, as a right to vote for the economy they want. Techvolution can start with the simple decision to use one app, over another, once those apps use the philosophy of techvolution.

Writing this book, learning the power of digital technology, and dealing with the “nobility”, helped me design some cool products that propels our society forward in novel ways. However, I’m just a cog in the wheel, relying on the work of others. To start is the wondrous world of political philosophy, from Rousseau, but also all the way from Socrates, Plato, Aristotle, to Machiavelli, Hobbes, and Locke, all who showcase how to see, interpret, and remake a ruling philosophy.

I also owe a huge debt to Walter Issacson for his _The Innovators_; the very well written history book on the digital revolution. Without it I’d never have put ourselves inside the history of revolutions that I had been studying for so long. He was especially great at emphasizing how technology kept being used for communication and collaboration, and enhancing the computer-human “symbiosis”.

Lastly, I owe a huge debt, as everyone connected to the internet does, to the current world of open-source, and the programming community at-large. They showed how immediately the ethics of new tools, fills the minds of the users of them. I’ve learned what program design, dev ops, languages, is because an army of people have contributed to the wondrous world of knowledge so easily available throughout the internet.

I hope I can motivate them to direct their power to replacing the nobility. Not incidentally, but a coherent techvolution. I hope others copy me in the millions, and improve my little ideas to make the world better faster.

The key is to never sell to the nobility. Deal with them if they’re willing. But bypass them if they aren’t. Like how Uber, Tesla, Air-BnB, and Netflix ignored conventions and just empowered people to find a ride with strangers, drive a quality electric car, stay at a stranger’s place, or stream a movie online. Give the people the right to vote with their purchases.

Plus there’s the glorious world of open-source and wikinomics. Both of these world-wide collaborations to build software, and enclyopidia’s, that turned world class software and expert knowledge as easy to use as a download, and as easy to contribute to as a upload. Millions of contributions of these communities showcase the power of “micro-stories” to techvolutionize the world.

The philosophy of techvolution is hidden inside this success. A new enlightenment waiting to be unleashed on most of our society that’s still old-fashioned. The huge array of consumer apps and technologies of face-modification to look like a cat, and 10 different ways to stream a song, instant chats about your dinner, were just society getting the tech ready to be unleashed on a non-functioning society.

But the road ahead is bumpy. Because although the people may be sick of their daily problems, they are also comfortable in the philosophy that causes them. They’re stuck in a comfort zone, and it’s scary outside of that bubble. The traffic jam of old ideas embedded into our DNA that’s in the way of the future is long; obsessive privacy, progressivism/conservatism, free-trade, suburbia, management culture, consumerism, competition, and formal education – each of these elements and more will have to be amended to make our society flourish again.

We can choose to wait for and fight a revolution, or we can master a natural phenomenon and start a painless techvolution.

Along the road, we’ll have to take new routes. We’ll explore the road less traveled. Techvolution will require tracking and predicting future technological changes, which will force us to question how we think lots of stuff like time and space, individual rights, history, how we live, travel and eat, who the leaders should be, how resources are organized, what our social obligations should be, how we define individuality, how relativity factors into human life, and even our version of equality. To succeed I must make you, be you a prince or a Cinderella, start a revolution in your head, so that you’ll follow a techvolution in your life.

Will Johnny Majic really join the list of greats who cracks a mystery and moves revolutions into the realm of human mastery? Who knows? And does it even matter? That’s your call. Lots of people helped Newton conquer gravity, so I’d be happy to provide even a tiny contribution helping humanity understand our revolutions. Because, like Rousseau, I just want to contribute to the happiness of our society.

While Rousseau wrote his philosophy many years ago, much of it still applies. In fact, if he were alive he’d recognize our world, except he might reword his old quote as: “People are born productive; and everywhere we are chained to a desk.”

The question is, how do you feel about that?
