
# The 2008 Economic Crisis Was Only the Beginning

## We Are A Non-Functioning Society

by Johnny Majic
DECEMBER 1, 2009 (with minor updates since)

## Backpage

Are you happy? On the outside, Westerners have flashy products, full employment, and stable politics. On the inside, our middle-class deals with stagnate wages, crushing debts, antisocial behavior, political hatred, climate change. We have the freedom to vote Left or Right, moderate and extreme, and we've tried them all, but none have helped.

In this book, I argue our unhappiness is a sign of a bigger problem. Our ideologies are very outdated. They were created in the Industrial Age, and since 1970, we've been in the Computer Age. Our ideologies are holding us back, which is causing our frustrating lifestyles and growing social problems. We need a new philosophy—one created to harness the remarkable potential of electronic tools.

Here it is. Its big lesson is this. The middle-class has to step up and use digital technology to solve our own problems. If we don't, we'll keep suffering the pains of civilization running on old—ideological—fumes.

## Table of Contents

1. [Introduction](#introduction)

2. [Our Foundations](#our-foundations)

3. [Starting Our Update with a Very Brief Overview](#starting-our-update-with-a-very-brief-overview)

4. [What Comes After Individual Security](#what-comes-after-individual-security)

5. [Digital Freedom](#digital-freedom)

6. [Past and Present](#past-and-present)

7. [Camels in the Amazon](#camels-in-the-amazon)

8. [A Very Wet and Stubborn Camel](#a-very-wet-and-stubborn-camel)

9. [Google It](#google-it)

10. [Forget the Green Revolution](#forget-the-green-revolution)

11. [The Vinne Chase Offer](#the-vinne-chase-offer)

12. [Take It](#take-it)

13. [Conclusion](#conclusion)

## Dedication

For me.

## Quote

_"I feel like I'm in a fucking circus"._

co-worker

# Introduction

Since the economic crisis began, there has been an ongoing expectation that the world economy will soon recover. Many newspapers, business leaders, academics, government officials, and politicians often assert that the economy will soon turn around, that good days are just ahead, and that a roaring economy is about to return. This article is written to state that those predictions are erroneous assumptions because the real bubble has not even popped yet. The true bubble was not popped by the sudden devaluation of housing prices, the untenable levels of sovereign debt, lower consumer spending, or a great recession. These are only symptoms of the true bubble, which is still inflating and getting as big as big can be, as big as the American or French Revolution. The bubble is society’s foundation of individualism manifested into global free market economics, and it is about to burst.

This is not a temporary economic crisis. This crisis is the beginning of our most basic tenants of political and economic life changing before our eyes. Our society’s very foundations of individualism that the French and American Revolutions fought to create are failing.

It may seem incredible to read, but as time passes and with each prediction of improvement unfulfilled, it should seem less incredible. It’s been several years of those predictions, while crisis after crisis arise in America and throughout the Western world.

If this economic crisis started so unexpectedly and we continue to suffer despite our best efforts, doesn’t it stand to reason that our foundations are our problem? I think yes. I think it is our foundations that are crumbling, and that is why the economy isn’t getting any better. Our foundations are the last thing we question and, thus, the last thing we address. Not questioning our foundations is the reason we are surprised and befuddled by this economic crisis. This is not a temporary economic crisis; it is a total societal failure because our foundations have made our society non-functioning.

# Our Foundations

Our foundations are universal: individual liberty, equality, and rights. These are seen and entrenched not only in our constitutions, charters, declarations, and laws, but they are also ingrained in our very minds. Because they are our foundations, we do not really see them, and like most any system, these foundations are built upon and depended on, but they are rarely reviewed after they are established. To make a comparison, a parishioner in medieval times hardly questioned his faith when he thought about it; he acted based on it by going to church, observing the Holy days, reading the Bible, and especially, by honoring the king, and we, today, follow the same routine. An example of how we today believe in our foundations is below. It was written in Bloomberg BusinessWeek in May 2011 to identify our society’s strength:

<blockquote>
    The United States has no purpose. That is, perhaps, its greatest achievement. America’s founding document, its Declaration of Independence, allows the state to exist only to secure life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. That’s it. There’s a curious lack of ambition in those words. The United States was not founded for the greater glory of anything or as the necessary outcome of history; it was founded for the freedom to collect figurines, to join a clogging troupe, to take a road trip. Yet these words, which carry no ideology whatsoever, are the ones that keep winning (against other political and economic systems, such as fascism and communism). This is the lesson of the past 10 years...The most successful organizing principle the world has ever known is a simple guarantee that we can buy and do things that have no purpose greater than the satisfaction of our own happiness.
</blockquote>

These words from Bloomberg describe our way of life as one without purpose, ideology, or ambition. These words say we exist only to buy and do things for individual happiness, and the fact that this ideology (what I refer to as our foundations to prevent confusion because there are many self-proclaimed ideologies within our society) keeps winning against all possible ideologies showcases how innate individual liberty, equality, and rights are to us, so much so that we do not think to validate them. Like religious faith to a parishioner, we just accept these foundations because individual equality, rights, and liberty are the basis of who we are. They are the foundation of the declarations, constitutions, and charters we swear loyalty to, are born into, and are governed by, so why would we question them?

However, as this economic crisis continues, we should question our foundations, and we should start by realizing that our foundations were not created in a vacuum. They were created in response to another set of foundations; every founding document declaring individual liberty was created to counter another power. That other power was monarchical power, which was rejected because it became tyrannical. Therefore, individual liberty, equality, and rights were created to oppose monarchical power, and they have slowly expanded at the expense of that bygone non-functioning power.

However, no end-date was ever given for our foundations. Not one of our declarations, charters, or constitutions ever outlined when the drive to rid tyranny would stop. After liberating the individual from monarchical tyranny, we just kept going on the same path to individual liberation, and after winning, we continued to see all limits to individual freedom as tyrannical, even after the monarchs were long dead. Why was no end date given for such a difficult endeavor? Who has the foresight to include an end date when fighting a centuries-long battle? The writers and founders of our foundations, such as Thomas Jefferson and Jean-Jacques Rousseau, were solving their problems, and it is our responsibility to solve our problem. Our problem is that after achieving individual liberation from monarchical tyranny, we went too far and eliminated what the monarchs represented (and abused): a community interest, which is directly opposed to individual interests. We never replaced the communal interest of the monarchy, leaving nothing to counter our individual selves.

So, I think that as we’ve kept pursing individual liberty, equality, and rights, we’ve also distanced ourselves from a concern for our community because we have no counter-force. It is this excessive individualism that has made our society non-functioning. We, individuals, have made our society non-functioning. This is why the strategies we invented to create the community’s material needs established via individualism, mainly the global free market and its regulation, no longer function. Thus it is our constitutions, charters, declarations, laws, our very selves, and our foundations that are our problem.

If this sounds sacrilege or treasonous to our current foundations, that belief only indicates how long this economic crisis will last because loyalty to our foundations will only delay the return to a functioning society. If the reader thinks our current versions of individual equality, rights, and liberty are unquestionable, consider this: if the two political halves of our society, the Left and the Right, increasingly do not recognize each other’s versions of what individual rights, liberty, and equality mean, how can diverging interpretations of the same principles remain valid? The continued rejection of each other invalidates the entirety. Neither the Right nor the Left recognize the other because both see the others’ imposition as a new form of tyranny, because tyranny is all they see, because they use outdated foundations that were created specifically to rid the world of tyranny. Therefore, neither side has an answer to our crisis because neither the Right nor the Left can see that they are the problem.

We, thus, need to update our foundations. To update our foundations, we need to critique them. To critique them, we must oppose them. To do so, I try to flip our individualist perspective on its head and imagine how a single person would operate our society. This top-down perspective of society is how the monarchs used to see _their_ society. When a person sees society as her responsibility, she sees that just as an individual has requirements, and therefore rights, so does a community. When seeing society in this way, (without individualism as the primary concern), we realize how stupidly we operate our society as individuals. No individual person would run our society the way we do. For example, we build roads communally, but we let car obsessed/dependent individuals use them as they please. We design, build, and transport a water bottle that will be drunk from once before it is discarded for another that will be purchased when that same person wants another drink. We destroy limited farm land for an individual’s lavish housing. We multiply our languages, our means of communication, to celebrate differences on the Left or to bring in cheaper labor on the Right, without considering how much harder it is for a community to communicate if members don’t speak the same language. We protect outdated physical property, such as CDs and DVD’s, from cheaper, instant distribution through digitization to protect the wealth of a few who depend on society’s stagnating technology upgrades. Such a wasteful society makes so little sense unless individualism is the primary goal that subjugates all others. These are signs of excessive individualism because a community interest would hate such a waste of its resources.

This top-down perspective is easily visualized, making it easier to see our failures. Seeing the top-down perspective we are missing is not unlike being a player in a real-time strategy computer game in which a player runs a community. In these simulations of real-life, a society full of individuals is controlled by just one individual. All the other individuals have no say; they simply do as they’re told. The player gives orders based on the community’s needs. In these simulations, a player is forced to realize society has functions, or established operations to provide what it and its individuals need. Functions are elements natural in any society that if they are properly considered would equal a periodic table of economic functions. These functions include but are not limited to: construction, politics/decision-making, farming, energy gathering, communication, transportation,  research and development, education, governance, defense, attack, entertainment, storytelling, and repopulation. All of society’s functions have levels of quality and a need of continual upgrading, so the player investing in one function sacrifices investments in other functions. If the choice about which function is favored is chosen correctly, the society benefits.

Furthermore, any function of society is a requirement of society, and in as much as a requirement can be considered a right, these societal functions are community rights. The requirements for individual liberty, equality, and rights were made because of too much imposition from the monarchs (i.e., community). Today the individual is too much of an imposition on the community and its rights. Individuals who now control the community disregard the community and its functions by wasting community resources, hurting society.

Moreover, the functions of society are not separate from the individual because individuals comprise functions. Community are individuals, the segment of the individual working for others, either because of requirement, or the more discriminating and fruitful because of free choice. The defended, defenders, housed, builders, fed, farmers, educators, students, storytellers, and audiences, are what individuals are and who we want to be. These roles are also what society needs now. Again, community and individual benefits benefit both. There is a symbiotic relationship that requires a balance, but we inherently lack a balance between individuality and community.

To see how we can delve deeper than our material waste and look at how individualism separates us from each other, look at our inability to find companionship. As our society encourages individualism, it inherently discourages coupling because why would an individual couple? We increasingly don’t couple; committing to a partner is hard for us because we cannot sacrifice our (individual) selves for one another. We expect the other to be like us with our likes, dislikes, interests, and personalities, instead of allowing another to change who we are, making our version of true love, which is revered in most the songs we sing/listen to, improbably rare. Individuals would rather hear a song and imagine their own true love than commit to loves creation. We, individuals, choose loneliness in the name of freedom but how is an individual freer when she has no obligations to others or others to her; this inhibits love, and other virtues such as sacrifice, honour and friendship from entering our lives. Nevertheless, many individuals today choose to be alone.

This lack of commitment pervades our society in all its aspects, from the professional athlete whose loyalty to the city he plays for is solely based on money, the U.S. worker who buys foreign products, and a customer who makes unrealistic demands on their vendors, to a student who doesn’t listen to his teacher. Each individual abuses one another when the economy gives them preferential treatment, usually when an individual is a customer, because the individual must be catered too, so we avoid sacrificing our individual selves by avoiding commitment, which is required for anyone to be a good husband, student, customer, athlete, or mother, or for greater things such as with new infrastructure, cleaner oceans, better public health or actual sports clubs with competition within cities. These improvements to our community don’t happen because few people will commit to act on a community interest because our foundations discourage it and, instead, only encourage the obtaining individual happiness that we do not question.

This is not so in the previously mentioned simulation games. Individuals just do their jobs, as required by the community. They are forced into relationships with others, so they have commitments to each other because individuals get no say. Individuals are not wasteful unless they are told to be, they get/stay married if the community interest says to, and they sacrifice for the war effort when it is demanded. Of course, if those individuals had wills, they would rebel under the imposition. Thus, these real-time strategy games represent an excessive and, therefore, abusive community like America had under King George III, or France had under King Louis XVI, but our society is at the opposite end where there is also no balance. The simulation games, thus, reflect our own shortcomings of excessive individualism. A good society has a balance because society is a balance.

When we see our inherent inability to act with a community interest, we can see this economic crisis is no crisis. It is the beginning of the inevitable historical advancement of our society constraining natural human excess. Our society is now failing because the demands for individual equality, liberty, and rights that were made to destroy the excessive focus on community the monarchy had become have fully succeeded. After that victory, the victory over monarchy and its excessive and abusive community, individualism progressed to its own excess and abuse. With success came excess, which made our society non-functioning and in need of an update—an update beginning with what we think as a temporary economic crisis.

It may seem simplistic to read that we need to concern ourselves more with our communities. Demands are made for that all the time. However, with our beloved charters, constitutions, declarations, and laws, which were founded on our own beloved individuality, a balance toward community is now impossible. This balance cannot be found using our current foundations because our foundations are so ingrained and unquestioned that we think addressing the community can occur by expanding individualism.

This inability to moderate our individual excess is seen in many issues shared by the Left and the Right. Both ideologies are based on individualism; they only argue about how to pursue individualism. Look at health insurance, for example. Health insurance is an example of our society collecting communal wealth so that individuals can access it when they need it. Of course many people use insurance every day. However, despite individuals routinely making terrible health choices, neither the Right of the Left question why individuals need so much community-funded insurance whilst living a regular life. This is because neither has a problem with an unhindered individual accessing community health coverage as long as that coverage is accessed according to their particular ideology’s view of how best to manage access; private or public access. The community saying no to the individual is not acceptable to either the Left or the Right if their ideology is used. When asked how to limit the resulting individual overuse of communal resources, both the Left and the Right point at the other ideology as the one to be sacrificed. Hence, its private vs. public health insurance in our political discourse to solve our health crisis, which just means the community is attacked twice while the individual keeps getting subsidized by the community for making terrible individual health choices.

This attack on the community happens throughout our society because individualism is our goal. Individuals drive lavish cars over failing bridges, shop at Wal-Mart but hate working at or selling to Wal-Mart, order and eat more food than they would ever cook or grow themselves, and make demands as a customer they hate fulfilling when they are the worker. This individual selfishness overworks our community’s functions, but is, nonetheless, the mentality of our economy because pursing and promoting self-interest or individual happiness is our foundation and, thus, the basis for our economy. Furthermore, we’re so distanced from a community concern that it has evaporated from our minds, meaning we, individuals, can’t stop abusing the community we live in.

The Left and the Right, however, do agree on one major policy. To continue following our foundations and therefore continue to expand our economy, trying to facilitate our individual happiness. They do this by increasingly expanding free trade, individual mobility, and immigration to include more people into our economy. Their motivation is to increase economic activity via economies of scale, economic specialization, and comparative advantage. I’d say in actuality the Right and the Left actually need to expand our economy because the people we already trade with, each other, can’t stand being involved anymore. Thus, in order to continually consume, we individuals need to bribe the needy in developing economies; only these people will work the hours, degrade their environments, and sacrifice their needs to give us what we want. Thus, the Right and the Left still agree to increase free trade and only argue how that growth should be handled. Rightists want freer growth to make opportunities more available. Leftists want regulated growth to benefit more people. More wealth generation versus more wealth redistribution is seen in private vs. public, austerity vs. stimulus, market vs. government, or more broadly the Left vs. the Right. They argue how to manage what both sides agree on: society acting to make the individual happy at the community’s expense.

Economic growth via economies of scale, specialization, and comparative advantage does help build more when starting from scratch. These principles helped build more when we had little economic power because they concentrating all our economic power together when technology was limited, rare, and expensive. However, with economic prosperity technology increases its power and circumstances change. A hungry person makes a fundamentally different choice than a sated person. As we continue to increase our economy’s size, we continually increase the communal pooling of resources, consumers are increasingly distanced from our demands, and our society encourages the individual abuse of society’s functions and of our community resources, which can be seen in daily traffic jams, mounds of empty water bottles, and heavily burdened health insurance plans. All of these functions are not functioning because they have no counter-force, which means that no person has the power to say no when an individual demands their happiness be fulfilled because if a vendor or company does say no, an individual can go somewhere else in the free trade, easy migration, cheap/oil transport economy with no adverse effects. Therefore, if a U.S. worker doesn’t want to work for wages to allow another U.S. worker to buy more stuff, like a bigger SUV or a bathroom remodel, then a Japanese, or Taiwanese, or a Mexican, or Chinese or Vietnamese worker will (and must) do it. This philosophy, however, eventually leads to economic waste not efficiency because individuals don’t have to qualify their wants. Our society’s debt crisis is the result of individuals buying so much stuff that offers no return, like a bigger SUV or a remodeled bathroom, and that doesn’t actually improve the function of community transportation or sewage. Neither the Right nor the Left, however, disagrees with the system; they only disagree on the particulars of how the economy should be managed, and they demand the other side be the one to sacrifice to maintain the system. Hence the two sides of individualism increasingly argue, battle and will soon war because they have no other answers because they do not question our foundations of individualism.

Therefore, no current political ideology fixes our problems. The solution to this economic crisis isn’t a question of using the regulated market or the free market to solve our problems because both are fixated on our problem—individualism, which is written into our declarations, charters, laws, and minds. The Left and the Right still have the same foundations. Both think the individual makes the best economic choices themselves, and they think that individual choice inherently benefits society. That was once true, but again, a hungry, cold, tired, oppressed, or poor individual makes a choice based on need and solves a community’s problems along with their own problem. This results in a moderate choice. The sated, cool, bored, pampered, and prosperous individual we now have makes a choice based on wants, and wants are selfish and are not connected to a community concern at all. Now our individual is unbalanced, as is our society, which is proven by the debt crisis, the failing infrastructure, and society’s portly bellies and bad knees. As seen in the BusinessWeek quote about collecting figurines, or to take a road trip, our society hasn’t adapted to the fundamental change that unhindered individual choices are not automatically infallible or somehow Divine. Individual choices and wants require a test to qualify as good, a test we do not think to give, and if we try both Left and Right reactively cry tyranny. Thus, the individual choices today of our prosperous and pampered individual which are supported by the Right and the Left fail to meet our community needs and fail our society. As our society runs into problems (as any observer knows), each political side simply blames the other. Both ideologies fail (as any observer knows) and will continue to fail because the foundations upon which they are dependent fail. This is because it is not someone else who is the problem; it is not the Right or the Left that is the problem. Every single person is the problem, and everything everyone does is the problem because our foundations, our way of living, and our very selves are the problem. Thus, we need to change ourselves. This is a bold thing to say, but it will be shown in detail below.

Anyway, explaining the problem with our entire society is a difficult task. My only hope is to advance the critical thinking that I believe exists in our society, especially in philosophy of silicon valley products, but that isn’t given creditability in society’s movies, television news, newspapers, and academics or throughout society’s business leaders and politicians because these functions are from that same non-functioning society that is obsessed with the individual and do not question our basis of individualism.

In the writings below, there will be holes, gaps, questions, and grammatical errors that I’m constantly trying to fix. If anyone ever reads all this, I ask for some leeway; this is a lot to write. I try to observe and write as simply as possible, with no philosophical terminology, no mathematical formulas, no economic figures, and not even too many references. The writings use simple reasoning to show why our society is wrong. Some are long, detailed and written carefully, others are short and to the point. All the articles are written anonymously to prevent claims of bias. Let the reason speak for itself. Let it be accessible to all, even if it is read by no one at all. Shucks. It will be a lesson history will clarify soon enough anyway.

Cheers.

# Starting Our Update with a Very Brief Overview

I think the best way to understand our society is to understand what our society replaced. Our constitutions, charters, and declarations, which established our foundations, were based on the desire for political liberty, fraternity, and equality demanded and earned during the 18th and 19th Century liberal political revolutions. These demands for political freedom were made against the repression of the monarchs, but those demands for political freedom were not demanding something new; they were simply demanding control of the political power held by the ruling monarchs. The liberal revolutionaries wanted control over their own society, their own military, and their own government institutions, and the revolutionaries wanted limitations on the government authorities because they lived with, fought against, and thus feared tyranny over the individual.

However, where did the political power of an established military or an established government institution come from? The people. Who else could create the power but those who comprise it? The European royal families: the Bourbons, the Habsburgs, the Tudors, etc., consolidated the political power of individuals into a concentration to form a more stable community. This happened during the unsure, turbulent times of the Early Middle Ages when the individual willingly surrendered his natural rights to warrior nobles for security guarantees. It is important to note that this deal wasn’t forced on the individual; he wanted it because he was scared. His struggles to later cast off monarchical power before and even during the liberal revolutions also proved his earlier inability to protect himself and his property.

The concentration of individual political rights transformed into political power for the warrior nobility, and as political power continued to consolidate, it became more effective. Disorganized realms slowly organized into powerful nation states. As this happened, the need for the warrior nobility was increasingly reduced as individual security was found in the organized, bureaucratic state governments and an organized, professional standing army. In the process, the warrior nobility became the nobility and slowly outlived their usefulness. Gradually, individuals thought they should have their political rights and still get their security guarantees from an organized, lawful, participatory, democractic state. It appeared to be the best of both worlds looked attainable, protection with participation.

However, as disorganized realms formed into an organized state hubris was instilled in the decedents of the warrior nobility. These royal families used their political power to manipulate the dominate theology of the day to validate their right to rule in their states via the divine rights of kings. This is because as the royally led nation states developed and became ever more effective, their royal leaders felt personally vindicated. The validity of their political rule was verified and, thus, more deeply established. As its leaders, the political royalty took credit for the effectiveness of the state, and the nobility and their subjects believed, and thus reasoned, that God had given them the authority to rule. The nobility and its supporters very rarely, if ever, critiqued their functional contributions to their contemporary society, but they justified their royal status based on a prior function, the promise to keep the people safe. The nobility and most of the subjects didn’t believe the original security deal had been fulfilled; therefore, the political rights of the individual could be returned. Read an example to understand how ingrained this mentality became. Look at final words of King Charles I of England, whose rule was overthrown by Oliver Cromwell and his New Model Army in 1649 after two civil wars. The king battled Parliament for political power, specifically the right to raise taxes, and lost, and was about to be executied by the people, who he thought of as his subjects.

<blockquote>
    Truly I desire their (the people's) liberty and freedom as much as anybody whomsoever; but I must tell you their liberty and freedom consists in having of government, those laws by which their life and their goods may be most their own. It is not for having a share in government, Sir, that is nothing pertaining to them. A subject and a sovereign are clear different things.
</blockquote>

After two civil wars and a trail whose verdict was death, King Charles could still not even fathom how his rule could be questioned, never mind countered by his subjects, even as those subjects put his head on the chopping block. The king’s conviction was so strong he overcame a speech stutter and spoke with unusual passion and clarity that his trial had no natural right.

So, how could the feeble, cradled individual regain his natural political rights from the unneeded but very powerful leaders of the peoples own states? By using the gun. Technology had changed human circumstances. Mastering the sword and the bow takes years. A commoner, and the commoners, didn’t have the time and, thus, had to defer to the warrior nobility for protection within their castles. Commoner’s rebelled before the liberal revolutions, but almost always failed, because uprising with the sword and bow is near impossible. Not so with the relative ease-of-use and much greater power of the gun, which, of course, made swords, bows, armor, and even castles, the primary source of protection provided by the political royalty, technologically obsolete. The guns of the masses proved mightier than the swords of the nobility. As technology advanced in an advancing civilization, it addressed society’s biggest problem for Europe during the Middle Ages: individual security. Hence, the gun, which could increasingly privatize individual protection, was invented. Thus, when the individual was responsible for his own security, he could also recapture his natural political rights. Poetically, a secure society provided by the nobility allowed technology to develop and destroyed the need for that nobility, not that the nobility saw this paradigm change.

Dismantling the political concentration of power was therefore a massive struggle. Despite the fact that they were no longer useful in protecting the individual, not performing any function for society, the nobility resisted change. The nobility resisted returning political power to the people through democratization of government because political power had become the nobles absolute right. However, since the people could now protect themselves, the nobles’ power wasn’t a requirement, so it wasn’t a right. Through citizen armies (as seen with Italian city states, Cromwell’s, Washington’s, Napoleon’s, and others), the people were able to force change, and they regained their political freedoms through wars and rebellions, ensuring the people’s participation in their governments and dismantling the outdated concentration of political power.

In short, after abdicating their natural political rights to a community that concentrated political power and protected all society’s members, the individual slowly regained those rights within that same community and experienced the best of both worlds: communally protected individual liberty. Prior to that dismantling, the nobility did have justified rights to political power. At first this was because the nobility were the best warriors, and later this was because the community they represented required security and constant/consistent political power. This established the temporarily just hereditary power of a noble.

Watch HBO’s Game of Thrones to see how, without guns, political power follows the mastery of the sword and creates political nobility. You will see how important rules of royal succession are in such uncertain times. You can also read lots of history books to see why the average person in the Middle Ages was so dependent on nobility for protection. However, it’s more enjoyable and more evident when you actually watch the dependence an individual has when a pitchfork or club is his only weapon against a master swordsman or a mounted knight. Game of Thrones also illustrates the chaos the average person suffered when the royal throne was empty. This chaos instills strong loyalty to a noble, and loyalty to European nobility was very strong until the gun privatized individual security and made dependence and political concentration unnecessary. The gun allowed the once-dependent peasant to become an independent citizen who could demand rights, equality, liberty, and happiness.

This is where we are politically today. We have established organized political power ruled effectively by the people who can change the political positions they occupy, such as judge, president, councilman, and colonel because with the gun no one can own any of the political positions any longer. Politics has become more stable, effective, and accountable, i.e., democratic; therefore, our problems today, including effective government, are not political, they are economic, and growing economic power, and privatizing economic power, shares a similar story.

## What Comes After Individual Security

The first thing any individual is concerned about is security. One has to be alive to live. Ask anyone who’s been in a life-and-death moment, and they will tell you that personal security is paramount during uncertain times. Why, then, wouldn’t the same principle apply to a society of individuals? It does for the same reason. A society must also be alive to live, survive, and hopefully learn to thrive. Societal collapses do happen; for example, collapse happened in Europe when western Rome fell and brought the turbulent Middle Ages with it. However, once the insecurity was solved through nation-states and democracies and the gun, as explained above, the second concern individuals and their societies have becomes more important. After gaining political freedom through liberal political revolutions, the people were poor, and they knew it. Therefore, the people became concerned with material betterment, which focuses the safe people on finding a better life. This requires society’s technology upgrades to focus on better economic functions such as farming, shelter, and transportation. This technology was needed because once an individual or society is safe, more and better material things are constantly needed to consistently improve society’s lifestyle, but how do you create economic power?

The same way political power was created, by individuals sacrificing their natural rights to form a concentration of power so that economic power is able to grow within a society. Again, this meant stratifying society into positions similar to the political nobility of kings, lords, bishops, and peasant. Also, creating economic power meant giving hereditary economic rights to the new economic nobility, so they could increase the economic power of economic peasants who, again, weren’t forced into the agreement. In fact, the peasants wanted the deal because although they were safe, they now became hungry, cold and bored.

This economic power exchange was done through property rights. However, personal property ownership wasn’t a new development. Socially protected competition over individual ownership of society’s functions was. The functions of society, such as water distribution and entertainment, were increasingly owned by individuals or bands of individuals (protected by society), where political nobility once controlled the functions simply because these functions resided within the political nobilities borders. Similar to the warrior nobility and its growth in political power, society’s best were supposed to battle/compete to consolidate and, therefore, increase their (and therefore society’s) economic power. Political authorities ceded control and let individuals own these functions across political borders to encourage growth. The communal action and social surplus required to build the first mills, factories, shipyards, was larger than the political boundaries could provide. So enlarging economic boundaries to allow for greater concentrations was thought of, allowing certain areas to specialize and create more and better material items. This allows every trading member to benefit with far more and better items then they themselves could ever create or produce. The idea worked, so economic boundaries slowly dropped through most of the world with free trade. Economic power, like political power, was concentrated, battled over, and protected from dismantlement as much as possible, so it could be as quick, and robust as possible to solve society’s new problem of little economic power.

Of course this worked, because it’s entirely natural. Doesn’t everything, from an idea to a tree, first start as a concentration? Look at any life form; doesn’t it always start small, and as it grows, it adapts its characteristics to its surroundings, its circumstance? A life form’s characteristics either allow it to succeed and prosper or cause it to die due to its particular environment. The bottoms of our oceans and the tops of our mountains all have life within them because life, in its infinite forms, can adapt. Established elders, however, don’t adapt; they concentrate themselves by producing offspring, allowing youth to solve/adapt to the new circumstances.

To solve the problems of circumstance, life is divided between two extremes, communal living and individual living. For example of the community concern think of a bee in a highly interdependent hive that depends on abundant flowers and the flowers upon it and on the complex (and highly interdependent) ecosystem. For an example of individual living think a stationary invertebrate in a cave creek waiting for morsels of whatever passes by, or some form of life in between. Life, through its different species, has astonishing variations in how much its independent actors depend on each other to live and sustain themselves. Life within a species evolves to adapt itself to every circumstance, and each circumstance requires a balance between communal living and individual living because no life form can be totally self-reliant or totally useless, but every life form has a function and solves a problem within an ecosystem.

These adaptations also describe the human ability to create technology. We, humans, can uniquely mimic all forms of life because we can use reason to choose how to live between life’s two extremes, entirely communally, entirely solitarily, or usually somewhere in between the two extremes. We are either like diligent working ants or seeds blowing in the wind, an individualistic explorer discovering new lands, a community-dependent miner who mines new lands, or somewhere in between. Our great advantage is that we can use our reason to choose how to adapt to our circumstances the way nature does through different life forms. Therefore, it is very crucial that we continually create technology to enable us to adapt more easily to any circumstance, so we can interact with and associate ourselves with nature. We don’t always use our adaptability well, but we can and often succeed in adapting well. As castles protected society, and then guns privatization that protection, our technology changes our circumstances, forcing us to rethink how we live and adapt our society to be either more individual or communal.

When and how do we adapt and why? We naturally shift between states of community and individuality. When we need something, we form a community that forces individual participation to sustain itself, such as a city forming an army for defense. After the threat is gone, the army disbands and individuality returns. There is no natural preference to one state over the other, however. The choice depends on where a person is and what society needs. No soldier should desert if he is defending his city’s walls, except where foresight is needed, and no person should be a solider if no one is at his walls. The rights of either the community or the individual depend on what is required to best adapt to the circumstance. Setting the dial correctly means society will adapt to its circumstance well so society functions correctly, facilitating human happiness.

Humans individually form themselves into a concentration to better adapt to a problem. We, humans, solve problems with technology the same way nature does with species. Thus, we come together for the same reason bees live in a hive—because individuals in the community benefit from communal action that is used to address their needs. However, after the job is done, after the honey is grown, unlike bees, we disband for the same reason a bear mostly lives alone—because shifting between the extremes of individual and community is who we are and because improving technology means we don’t always have to band together to get what we need like bees do. It is the technological adaption ability of humanity that lets us adapt to consistently changing circumstances, which is very unlike bees that will always need to make honey or a bear that will never make it. We can adapt to any circumstance because we come together and disband continually, developing new technology as we encounter the resulting circumstances that are also continuously changed as a direct response to our technology, restarting the process over and over again.

For a long time, our society’s circumstance/problem was massive uncertainty and poor individual safety, so we banded together to solve that through nobility and their kingdoms and castles, which grew into nation-states. Then we disbanded into democracies via the gun. After that problem was solved, the next problem was poverty, hunger, and cold. So naturally, two centuries after we liberated ourselves from political tyranny, we’ve created enormous economic power. The democratization of political power was a natural consequence, so why wouldn’t it be the same for our economic power?

Some readers may be thinking economic power is already privatized, but it isn’t. Politically, we are one person, one vote, and political and even military leaders ask for their position and are accountable to the people. No one takes your political opinion away, do they? It used to happen daily through torture and death. Economically, most have to work for others just to live an average life, and most people can’t tell their bosses, clients, or customers what they think. Modern individuals can question the President live on air, but questioning a single customer jeopardizes a person’s job and, thus, their livelihood. Therefore, if an individual can be fired from a job she needs for being honest, how can economic power be private?

This does not mean we redistribute economic power. The political power of royal monarchs wasn’t redistributed because of the gun; political power was returned to the people. Our economic system is similarly outdated because concentrating economic power successfully changed the small amount of economic power the system was employed to solve. The same foundations are still in force. Therefore, we are not a healthy economy, which is evident in our inability to operate in surplus and by this misunderstood economic crisis. We should not redistribute wealth, we should democratize our economic wealth and return it back to the individual because that is our problem, our place in the march of human history, and that is what we need to adapt to.

The following text will explain how. It will juxtapose the concentration of political power with the concentration of economic power to show how economic power is consolidated and how it can also be democratized. I believe it is a very simple observation if a person is willing to accept that just because a right, any right, be it political or economic, such as the divine rights of kings, was received/given, it doesn’t mean it’s perpetual or useful; no right is always required because society has constantly changing requirements due to constantly changing circumstances. Determining what is a functioning society determines what is a requirement and what is a right. Therefore, no right is ever lasting. As it is with all adaptive life forms, we, humans, are encountering different circumstances because our technology, which is comprised of the tools we use for living, has changed our circumstance. This economic crisis is teaching us to adapt to our own adaptations. Therefore, our foundations are not wrong; they just do not include economics yet.

# Digital Freedom

The gun privatized individual protection, but what privatizes individual property? Digital property. Digital property infinitely replicates, is accessible to all, is easily upgradable, can create material things with 3D printing, is freely distributed over the internet, and is tremendously powerful via its electronics. All of this is fueled by electricity, which can be generated using various fuels from any geography, even personally owned sources, such as solar panels and fuel cells. Digital property enables the individual ownership of societal functions that once had to be controlled by a few. Digital property is the modern-day gun, and it has changed human circumstance, allowing economic rights to be returned to the individual.

What we are experiencing now through this economic crisis is a transition from concentrated economic power to the return of economic rights back to the individual because communally protected ownership is unneeded. We are at the cusp of democratizing or, more accurately, privatizing economic power. Similar to the monarchs who became curators of political power, our economic system and its leaders have outlived their usefulness, making our society non-functioning and causing problems that are revealed through this inaccurately named economic crisis.

This change is monumental. In politics it required seeing the king, who God selected to govern and control you, as someone accountable to and even replaceable by you. Our economic rights will also require validation. This change means someone cannot inherit wealth. This change means someone cannot own a societal economic function (i.e., food distribution, entertainment, or electricity) any more than someone can own a political office. This change doesn’t mean we redistribute wealth; it means the concentration of economic power is not distributable because it has been returned to the people who can increasingly depend on their own water supplies, heating fuel, electricity, and so on. Economic power will be returned via increasing economic self-sufficiency using the very tools created by the concentration of economic power. Will the people become wholly self-sufficient? No. As proven by our contemporary need for political leaders, we are not wholly political self-sufficient, so we’ll never be wholly economically self-sufficient either. However, with greater self-sufficiency comes greater leader validation, the advancement of digital property, the internet, easy-to-use software, bit-coin, indoor farming, so-called green power, 3D printers, and the stupendous other things waiting to be discovered, eliminating the need to concentrate economic power, ending inefficient individual subservience, and promoting good economics the same way democracy promotes good governance.

Note this, however. The first (flintlock) guns weren’t that good. Thus, the security provided by a monarch was still needed, and change couldn’t be immediate. The immediate change attempted in 1642 in England was quickly restored, as it was in 1789 in France, and those revolutions did not turn out that great for anyone. The American Revolution worked because there was no established royalty to fall back on; the political royalty never left their palaces in Europe, and they never went to the New World mostly because America was actually quite poor at the time. Much like Africa today, America was virgin land for new foundations to seed, and because those seeds had the political philosophy of the gun within them, America succeed fantastically. Regardless, change was inevitable in Europe, and it is for us as well. However, no one should expect immediate freedom from our adolescent digital property. Progress should be expected, however. Those holding economic power now can rightfully resist rapid change, but their resistance must be moderated by understanding the futility of pretending the die is not cast. Our circumstances demand that we adapt our society to function as digital property grows and continually changes our circumstances. As much as a requirement can be considered a right, we are now required to adapt to the new circumstances digital property creates. We’ve created new technology, but we haven’t changed how we live, our foundation.

Individuals willingly surrendered their political rights to the nobility. However, individuals still developed reasons, causes, and traditions based on their foundations, to justify their loyalty because they were involved in a relationship, albeit usually a subservient one, that benefited both parties. The nobility did die protecting their subjects even if it became less from vandals and barbarians but other power obsessed nobles. Even when the nobility abused their power, the individual still had self-enforcing loyalty or faith, because, after all, the individuals were merely being loyal to their own beneficial relationship. It was rational for a person to be for the king because he had the protection of the king, especially during the unstable times of the Middle Ages when the king was born.

The people were loyal as long as they needed to be. When did the people rebel? They rebelled when the goal of concentrated political power created via a king and nobility was reached in the organized nation-state. The nation-state could be effectively controlled by an individual who regained her natural political rights. The gun enabled this. When the civilian armies could exploit the gun, they were more effective than the nobility’s army because they more accountable, motivated, and modern. This was illustrated during the American Revolution and all other revolutions that removed royalty’s bondage. It was then that all people saw the divine rights of kings as unnecessary and non-functioning.

So it will be, and is today, with our system of economic power. This will enable the technology of digital property to replace the foundations that built it.

# Past and Present

In summary, to create something, it first must be consolidated. As that consolidation forms a concentration of power, it grows toward maturity, and the rationale of creating it ends because its very growth requires another adaption. Hence, all life creates offspring to adapt. This, of course, is just simplified evolution; which we humans mimic with our technological development. Please consider: if political and economic power are so similar, their systems must be similar also. Thus, there are modern forms of royalty, of peasantry, of the church, of colonialism, of empires, of tithes, of taxation without representation, of bondage, of liberators, of gun rights, of creationists, or of the Napoleonic Code. The new replaces the old with adaptations to new circumstance.

This article concentrates on America. It is the center of economic power, like France was the center of monarchical power during the Bourbons’ reign. Specifically, it is the roughly 70 million affluent suburbanites and their lifestyles that this article targets as these people are the rudder of our economic ship, so to speak. Their mentality and their economic choices are scrutinized here because their consumer items/services and their consumer lifestyles are our social surplus—the excess of our society that is available to invest in new technology to upgrade our society’s functions and adapt to our new circumstance. The rest of us regular people are just along for the ride. I critique the choices of these 70 million individuals devoted to their individual happiness by trying to view society from the top-down approach, as stated above, and by comparing the results of their individual choices to what a single community interest would think was best.

I know there are holes and questions when simplifying as this article does. Didn’t the gun inflict massive horror and oppression on the individual? It did, but chose another point in history in which you’d rather live than today. Many individuals died or were oppressed by a bullet, maybe more than were made serfs and slaves with a sword, but certainly far more were made free with the gun. Human adaptations take centuries, and we’re still very young. So, I don’t think this brief description of our current economic problems is as much of a problem as some might think because history tends to be pretty simple when looking back at it. Who now questions the fall of the monarchs or even a heliocentric universe? Despite thousands of years, thousands of minds and theories of astonishing variety throughout the entire world, and history arguing which stellar object, Sun or Earth, circles which, it was technology, the telescope, and an open mind that made the question moot, not lots of words or justifications.

So why must the explanation for our economic problems now be long and muddled if the potential of digital technology and historical precedence exist today to simplify our problems, as we’ve done to the past and as history will only do for us anyway? Who doesn’t see why the French peasants rose up against their royalty even though almost no one saw it coming or understood it at the time?

It’s for the same reasons that this crisis is beginning: because technology has changed our times. Simplification shouldn’t be a problem as this article simply seeks to supply a narrative for the criticisms of our foundations, and this criticism will only grow and grow because our foundations are based on a different circumstance than today. This circumstance is the economic powerlessness our foundations were adapted to solve, which they did through massive economic power. Like political power and the gun, economic power must be privatized to society’s individuals via digital technology. For now, our foundations are outdated and, thus, have made our society non-functioning.

# Camels in the Amazon

If you were to see camels in the Amazon, or polar bears in Syria, tree frogs in Mongolia, or termites in the Arctic, what would think? When you see SUV’s in Shanghai, daily newspapers in Great Britain, national insurance plans in every American city, green grass in Phoenix, coal power-plants in the Sunshine State, and another Spider Man playing throughout the world, what do you think? I bet you think it’s unnatural for animals to live outside their ecosystem, such as a camel in the Amazon. However, you would never think it’s unnatural for a human technological adaption, such as gas-powered SUV, to be driven in China, a place with no gasoline.

If a world ecosystem is unnatural, then a world economic market must also be unnatural. That’s because any world order is unnatural. It was unnatural for political empires to span the globe, and it is for our economic ones as well. This is the case for one simple reason rooted in nature, seen in every ecosystem: adaptability.

What is a species? Adaption. What is a sub-species? A further adaptation to local circumstances. Species are nature’s adaptations to circumstances. They reveal how life solves problems and survives.

What is a product? Adaption. A product is a human technological adaptation used to solve a problem. Products are human adaptations to circumstances. Products reveal how humans solve problems and prosper. An adaption depends on a specific circumstance that must be adapted to. No single species is adapted to every circumstance on Earth because Earth has many different ecosystems. This is the way it should be with economies too.

Thus, a worldwide economy is unnatural. It discourages adaptation, the sub in sub-species. A worldwide economy producing worldwide products may be easier in the short-term, but it is inherently short-term because nothing can be adapted to all local circumstances. A worldwide product is only good for the power that it was adapted it to solve their problems because their problems are solved more easily (at least until the technology changes their circumstances, and the entrenched product hinders further adaptations).

What about the rest of the problems that are left to be unsolved? If a person breeds many desert foxes and ships them throughout the world, does that mean the animal could thrive throughout the world? Would there be more wealth and more life just because desert foxes were produced en masse? No, because the species, like other products, only thrives if it is created to solve a problem for a specific circumstance. A problem is only a problem to those facing it. Problems are not global for a species, so why would problems be global for humans and our technology, which mimic species?

The key addition for economics is reciprocation, which is sister to democracy’s accountability, where political leaders are judged according to their performance because political leaders derive their power through the consent of the governed. In every ecosystem (a collection of species in the same environment), every living thing, everything, contributes and takes from the system. Each is balanced by its opposition in what is called biological organization, all life form participate in a cycle, which is simplified as: a plant converts the sunlight, an herbivore eats the plant, a carnivore eats the herbivore, and as they die, they decompose via bacteria and fertilize the plant. Each species adapts itself to make the best use of local resources, and force continual adaptations while battling each other, which keeps the ecosystem in balance and continually adapting. For anything a species wants, it must offer a return to the system (reciprocate) and be matched by another species able to offer what is desired. This cycle perpetuates beneficial exchanges. There is no long-lasting theft in nature (what we see as corruption) because what any species gets must be given to them in return for what the species offers. As a result, each species gives more than it takes, and life can adapt into a system of surplus, as seen in any healthy ecosystem. When we ignore this principle of reciprocation, we don’t have an economic surplus, as seen with our debt crisis.

A good economy works the same way a good ecosystem works. Thus, our worldwide market is akin to a huge transfer of foreign species that are alien to the natural local ecosystem and take from it but do not contribute, stealing from a system they are not a part of. Zebra muscles and African honey bees which are ravaging North America’s ecosystems are the most apparent, but not the only, example of the phenomenon in the natural world. Automobiles, air-conditioners, and an open labor market are the most apparent, but not the only, examples of foreign technologies damaging economies in the human world.

Now, no ecosystem is closed. As water rises in one area, it falls in another. Seeds from all plants scatter into the wind. Animals move and sometimes adapt to new areas. Foreign species can even adapt better to a location they are not from (but not necessarily to its existing ecosystem). Thus technologies developed in different economies can be exchanged because resources are somewhat shared in nature. However, there are strict boundaries between forests, grasslands, cold climates, and hot climates that force adaptations because these circumstances are different.

This is how it should be for economics. Where are the appropriate boundaries? I don’t know. To begin to determine these boundaries, ask E. O. Wilson who largely helped define biodiversity and sociobiology, here are two good introductions The Lord of the Ants and E.O. Wilson’s Theory of Everything. The reader could also find our economic boundaries by analyzing how European realms came to recognize each others’ political territories, after centuries of very bloody conflict, which is what finally happened in the Peace of Westphalia.

This article’s purpose isn’t to determine where the boundaries are. Its purpose is to state that economic boundaries exist. Nevertheless, it is hard to predict borders until you try to adapt to them. Please note that boundaries aren’t just physical, but cultural, ethnic, racial, linguistic, and religious too.

Our economic markets need not be separated from each other. Resources can be shared, but there’s a marked difference between an economy being separated from other economies, like a tepid pool is from other life forms, and the unfettered resource usage we encourage now. We encourage the free, wasteful usage of resources when we transport technologies to economies they are not suited for, like a polar bear being released in Antarctica with unsuspecting penguins. The penguins would be devoured because penguins are not adapted to bears. The same applies to technology, such as Middle East oil that is brought to America, which prevents all other alternative fuels from being used, or U.S. currency used in oppressive Middle East regimes that can buy their oppressive rule using unnatural social program spending or mercenary armies using foreign technology. Both members in that trade thwart each others’ development by preventing natural adaptations to their particular circumstances in which one needs new fuel and the other uses outdated tyrannical rule. It’s self-serving, wishful thinking to think a few species, or products, can accommodate an entire world. It’s wishful thinking to believe that adaptability and reciprocation can occur without economic boundaries and without a community that forces reciprocation between members who are forced to compromise, and contribute.

Not having economic boundaries wasn’t always bad. Our worldwide drive for production did create material wealth and, thus, in a way, created life. A hammer is a hammer to everyone; it is a fundamental building tool like any family of species is such as the Equidae whose species of horses, zebras, donkeys are usually a required component of any ecosystem that needs grazers. The same can be said for any animal family such as Felidae which is the genetic family for the species of lions, tigers, and leopards, who all partially fulfill a need for predators in a ecosystem. As this applies to humans and our economies, once we’ve created a technology, we must adapt that technology to our local circumstances as animal families adapted into species, then sub-species. With the creation of digital technology we can now adapt our technology into sub-species. Life, and thus material things, must be allowed to adapt to its circumstance, just like the Equidae has throughout the world through many different sub-species, such as the ass, zebra, horse, and kiang, all of which have adapted to their ecosystems.

Exchanges and species migrations do happen in nature, but those aren’t meant to be subsidized migrations, which is how I’d say soft-drink makers or car makers operate today when they open factories in new markets (which usually happens so they can grow and remain profitable). These half-conquests are bad because these products, their companies, and their home/native economies can’t reciprocate. For example, typically in nature, migrations are temporary and still involve equal exchanges between ecosystems, which become temporarily linked in a larger system that benefits each of the smaller, separate ecosystems. Unlike our drive for a one-world market, one economy, animal migrations are temporary and usually rather limited to a species of birds or migratory grazers. For example, when real snowbirds leave the arctic, they leave because food and warmth are gone, not because these snowbirds dislike the cold and want to gorge in hot climates.

What about human snowbirds? These people leave colder climates to summer in warmer ones, seeking to live more comfortably. However, human snowbirds are not the entire flock, just the elder members. That would be fine if the elders were not taking wealth from one ecosystem to spend it in another. Leaving one their home ecosystem means the elders are not being given their comfort by members of their own economy, which would prove through reciprocation that the comfort the elders were getting was deserved and earned fairly. Staying within one’s economy would also means the economic wealth, or life in an ecosystem, remains vibrant as opposed to now when wealth from a economy can be taken away on whim to be spent somewhere else, Florida for example. Imagine the elder real snowbirds took the calories from the youth and left for the winter. How would all that absent calories affect the flock and ecosystem? Reciprocation doesn’t happen for human snowbirds who are serviced by foreigners just happy to be getting the easy tourist money. In a broader sense, a lack of reciprocation happens throughout our economy with soda companies, auto companies, luxury watch companies, tourist companies, and education companies that either depend on growth in foreign markets or import foreign products/people to their home markets to survive.

So, a worldwide economy results in unnatural consequences. It encourages freeloading, selfishness, and waste when one a member of an economy, such as the demographic group of snowbirds or a company with a global supply chain, interacts with non-members to get what they want. Any group or company that depends on foreigners is essentially avoiding reciprocating with their economy to earn their wealth. This concept of a lack of reciprocation is not dependent on political beliefs. It doesn’t matter if the government redistributes wealth or if that wealth was taken from a business. It only matters that the person received/spent money outside their economy or ecosystem.

Selfishness, wastefulness, or freeloading cannot be justified in an ecosystem, so why is this action justified in an economy? It’s unnatural for a person to receive something their circumstances don’t provide. Unless your circumstances, your economy, or your ecosystem, have pleasant weather, good healthcare, profitable business operations, or plentiful food, no member should be allowed to have these things because it is unnatural. Even when there is plentiful food, no lion eats in excess because no ecosystem encourages it; his prey would be killed off or leave or the lion would be too heavy to hunt, and the lion species would be unsustainable (however if offered a free meal to scavenge the lion will ear it). Why would a lion gorge; why would any life form gorge?It is the same for us. Unless our desire is freely reciprocated by another (to return a favor you provided) or is fulfilled by something we made ourselves (making the issue moot), we should not have what we want. It is not functional; it is unnatural because nothing earns excess. Therefore, an immigrant nanny cleaning a (presumably too large) house is unnatural, and a Mongolian being shown the Captain America movie or a foreign exchange student paying very high university tuition is, like bringing water to grow Kentucky bluegrass in the desert, unnatural.

Thus, a worldwide economy wastes our economy’s energy. It prevents adaption to our circumstance. Humans live individually and collectively, switching between community and individuality as circumstances requires us to solve problems. We solve problems with our technology, and human adaptation depends on how technology develops. The recent technological development of digital property allows humans in different human ecosystem to adapt to our economic problems. Technology determines how we function, how we protect, shelter, heat, and feed ourselves. Thus, human lives are based on technology, and our society changes according to how technology allows us to interact with our circumstances.

Compare the implications of society having shanty houses/buildings/infrastructure to one having scientifically advanced houses/buildings/infrastructure, which is unfortunately easily seen by comparing the death tolls from natural disasters in advanced societies, such as Japan to societies like Haiti. Imagine living without canned food, imagine a Tsunami with no early detection system, or imagine rebelling against a mounted knight holding a pike. Technological development is everything. Read The Great Stagnation by Tyler Cowen to see how we’ve stagnated.

Our development now depends on having borders like any ecosystem. We don’t need to even enforce these borders with things like guarded walls. We just need to let our borders develop naturally by rejecting the unnatural migrations of people and resources, as seen in cheap oil, government subsidies, corporate bailouts, mass marketing, and other unnatural practices that are used to sustain the aged technology/adaptations our economic royalty struggle to keep afloat to maintain their own relevance. This struggle is reminiscent of the late political royals who fought so many wars within Europe, the war of Spanish succession, the Seven Years War, the Wars of Louis the XIV and others, which barely changed the borders within Europe. The royals were fighting according to the forebears security deal and fought so many useless wars for the glory and proliferation of their rule, which Louis XIV called Gloire. This fight resembles our economies insatiable drive for higher profits. A drive that isn’t generating a social surplus because being individualistic is short-term and concentrates on picking low hang fruit from human development.

Again, products are like species; both are merely adaptations. The continued pursuit of Darwinism is, then, somewhat silly as the obvious truth, as seen in the last few millions of years, is countered by the virtual end of animal evolution now because we humans now count in days. So, it is humans, with our ability to mimic all species through transitioning between the communal and the individual and using them both to create technology to adapt to any circumstance, that carries the goal of adapting and improving life.

But we aren’t doing that.

# A Very Wet and Stubborn Camel

We aren’t adapting to our economic borders because we don’t see Amazonians as different from Malaysians, Americans different from Chinese, Californian’s different from Virginians, women different from men, young different from old, capable from incapable and so on throughout our entire society. We don’t see different ecosystems or different human circumstance because our foundations, are very minds, are based on the political grounds of universal individual equality, rights, and liberty, so we’re blind to anything that counters them. Even though the advanced world, which largely shares the same political ideals, has political boundaries, we haven’t developed our economics to allow for its own boundaries. This is how politics taints economics, and even our science, because our foundations are so ingrained. If the reader thinks we do officially recognize and even celebrate our differences, explain why the same products are sold throughout the world. Explain our society’s official love of diversity, migration, multiculturalism, stupendous concentrations of economic wealth, multinational corporations, G8 meetings, International Monetary Funds, a World Bank, and a global supply chain.

What is a product? It is the technology a person invents that solves a problem. No one can imagine a contemporary person in Florida digging in a coalmine to fuel a stove anymore than they can imagine a tree frog trying to fly to catch a bug. If the Floridian had to generate electricity himself, what would he pursue as an adaption for the area? This question doesn’t just apply to generating electricity, it also means they’d adapt so they want less and need less, and all the human (re-)adaptations that entails.

Thus, economic growth is coming to an end. With digital property, we have the beginnings of the tools we need to materially improve our lives and better or social functions such as sewage, education, and energy gathering. Life (the ability to adapt), in a sense, has been created with our massive new untapped technological potential; we just need to use it according to our different circumstances. So, economic adaptation, not economic growth, is what we need now. To develop economically, we need to break the stifling attachment to a worldwide economy that encourage people to gluttonously freeload while mass producing as few products as possible, to the point that this production prevents adaptation and, hence, economic development in the world’s many/varied ecosystems or economies.

Our economic and political system not only doesn’t see that error, it can’t see that error. Our foundations disable us from seeing different economies because we think these differences are assigned by monarchical tyrants to belittle us, not empower us. We can’t see the community component of society (and ourselves), so we don’t recognize our differences and our different circumstances, and we struggle in crises. This coincides with our inability to question individual choices because we think the individual alone is divine.

With our extreme individualism, what we think of as the tyrant, the concern about our community, is what we need to moderate our society, making it functional and natural again. That change in perception is a hard sell. Remember, even as pious peasants—who once revered their royalty as descended from God—rose up against them, the political royalty never apologized for their excessive power and wealth. One would think such a change in perception from their followers would force reflection, but it didn’t. That’s how strong our royalty and the system are ingrained too. Our foundations are just as entrenched. Our economic royals don’t feel shame.

Who is our royalty? Our royalty generally consists of those who have economic power. These people hold power simply because of their positions within the concentration of economic power. Growth needs security and constancy, so our royalty oversee growth to ensure it is smooth. Their positions have titles, such as, manager, director, executive, and administrator to manage economic power; professor, reporter, pollster, and critique to keep it in line; broker, agent, and salesman to distribute it; celebrity and star, to keep it entertained; and consultant to do anything someone will pay for.

Power is also hierarchical. The CEO controls a regional manager the same way the prince controlled a duke. All positions are respected throughout the system as well. A prince was respected as a prince everywhere; it is the same with a CEO now. Economic wealth is also hereditary, as political power once was, as seen in the wealthy’s insistence that their wealth pass on to their children. All these positions of economic royalty oppose people whose value is independent of any system. These are people, such as bakers, cooks, tradesmen, programmers, writers, inventors, actors, and builders, whose value is directly related to their work. Our royalty oversee these people to ensure something is constantly being created because something is better than nothing. Lastly, as with political royalty, the economic royalty has priority in our system, and their jobs are rarely outsourced. Thus, which jobs are and are not outsourced maybe the best indication of who is and isn’t a member of the economic royalty.

Therefore, our royalty’s value and worth is wholly dependent upon managing the concentration of economic power our foundations were created to form. Royalty is among the last chosen to start a new society (few went to America) because their skills aren’t tangible. Economic royalty can’t create anything. They can’t cook a good meal or design a house, but they can manage a writer who writes another Spider Man movie or administer the display of the new Coca-Cola cup design in all McDonald’s restaurants. Economic royalty can’t improve our products’ functions, but they can use frills, repetition, spectacle, and the control of resources to attract people and make them buy it.

The economic royalty dislike level playing fields because open competition would showcase their repetitive and poor quality products. Why didn’t the political royals just run for elections? Why don’t entertainers or political pundits just compete on YouTube? Why aren’t the last-place MLB, NFL, or NHL teams punished for failure and relegated to the minor leagues to make room for successful minor league teams? Why didn’t the music industry implement Napster and not depend on a college student (Shawn Fanning, and other similar software writers too) to show an entire industry the potential of digital property? Why doesn’t the movie industry learn from that lesson and stop insisting on 3D movies?  This is because our economic royalty dislikes competition and its resulting better function, and our royals hide in corporations to protect their power to avoid competition. The royals today try to ensure their products remain used for as long as possible, regardless of whether the economy needs them or not. The recent history of corporate bailouts is an example of these royals refusing to adapt to their own unsuitability. It shows their unwillingness to be reprioritized in society. Like an aging starlet trying to stay relevant through spectacle on E News, our royals refuse to admit their time in the spotlight is over; it is time to let go.

This is why bailouts benefit the corporate world and why corporate culture is the opposite of adaptation. Its individuals succeed through conformity, adherence to etiquette, being very deferential, using guile to succeed, and showcasing their employee loyalty. How its members succeed proves corporations follow the same path to success, i.e., never offending consumers, reselling the same products as often as possible, using guile to sell, and rewarding customer loyalty. Both corporations and their members like award shows, ceremonies, and conventions (i.e., the Oscars, Fortune 100 lists, National Press Club), to celebrate themselves; endorsements, sponsorships, and rewards, to reward and validate themselves; industry accreditation and credentials; formal education to justify themselves; and of course, spectacles to distract everyone else. This is all needed because success and valued work doesn’t materially exist in the face of real person as it does for a chef, mechanic, comedian, or engineer, so has to be artifially created. Lastly, notice that with those who currently control economic power one can end up a total and utter failure but remain in power, as in with any corporate buyout package or seven-figure savings accounts. That used to happen with political failure too. Failed royal political leaders would rarely resigned or couldn’t be removed from political power.

This newspaper article by the Economist titled “The Few” offers another summation of our royalty. The article argues that our few still earn their power, which is something this write would usually disagree with as most royalty today are not the type of brainy people the article purports the economically powerful are. If it were true, being good at your work, producing quality products, solving the problem a person actually has, like programming a metric conversion app or installing a customized and more efficient solar water heaters, would matter more than the spectacle many industries depend on, such as this industry movie, car, and insurance industry so heavy with marketing. This article explains why the movie industry is so reluctant to learn from the music industry adapt itself from producing spectacle to quality stories using digital technology. Many of our (usually older) industries depend on spectacle not function because, as with the political royalty, their function is already fulfilled; therefore, their power has no function to advance, so they distract the public from dysfunction with spectacle. These failing industries even support each other. For example, the car industry advertises on TV, which duly covers all the year’s supposedly new cars. Realtors and movies advertise in newspapers and on TV, so both news mediums didn’t critique the housing industry as it was becoming a bubble or mention the continual decline in movie theatre attendance because, again, newspapers and television depend on movie and housing advertisements desperately as each medium is irrelevant with digital property, so they are hurting badly. All these old technologies support each other and resist economic adaption.

Nonetheless, all the above survive for now due to a mutually supportive relationships in which they buy loyalty to distract the public from seeing their dysfunction. However, greater function, like that seen in democracy, is waiting until the end of economic concentration with economic reciprocation via economic privatization enabled by the technological adaptation of digital property. Economic privatization is essentially the democratization of the economy, which occurs when people are told that their economic problems are first are foremost their own individual problems. Like with political power today, if a person wants others economic help, a person will have to make a case why he deserves others “vote” or help. Mr. Individual must be told, you are now left on to solve your own damn economic problems because society has created the technology for you to live economically independent.

Economic privatization is required not because of any unchanging moral reasons; it is required because a person solving their own problems helps society whittle down what the problem really is and what it isn’t. A society of people solving their own problems first, then going to others for help if they fail, is simply more efficient than a society where people force others to service them. Economic privatization is, of course, enabled by digital property. The two different economic worlds: the first in which individuals are serviced by a fast food regional food manager versus economic privatization where individuals are serviced by the person who owns and cooks their food, and their advantages and disadvantages can be easily contrasted here. Essentially with digital technology the information for being a successful cook and restaurateur is easier to learn, while the population is given more freedom to find and reward success, hurting the mediocre standard of fast food. Moreover with economic liberty free people will naturally seek better nutrition, because they will require better personal health, and also too few people will choose to make fast food, starving the spectacle industries of their work force.

This corporate world has necessarily abused their power to unnaturally sustain themselves. These economic royals are like a thieving foreign species in an ecosystem—they are corrupt. Our economic royalty inhibit economic development by maintaining their power despite the technological development that makes it moot, digital property. From the growth of digital property, economic royals have kept the cost savings for themselves and actually expected the individual to continue paying more rather than less for items that are made cheaper because of digital property. Hence, new products, such as 3D movies, digital books, and cars built by robots, actually cost more (because more is produced through more special effects, harsher copyrights, more horsepower, etc.), yet all allow for far cheaper prices through better product functions. Digital property is used to distract using spectacle and not adapt to a better function, resulting in boring movies, more expensive books, and gas-guzzling transportation vehicles.

Those who hold the economic power expect more because according to our foundations, greater concentration is what they should get. They don’t reflect; instead, they pat themselves on the back. Consolidated money in a society based on economic concentration isn’t too hard to achieve. Is it that hard for, say, the New York Yankees to make more money if New York triples its population/fan base but keeps the same number of baseball teams? That rationale of concentration during growth is the widely held corporate rationale of increasing economies of scale and comparative advantage. However, how hard is it for a retailer that consolidates all the retailers from an area into one store, deferring transportation costs to the car-bound customer and deterring competition, to make money? This is not hard, especially when corporate sponsors such as television shows and newspapers never question and continually promote individual consumer participation. Current economic power holders don’t question, so they keep expecting consumers to pay more, work more, and consume more, instead of using digital technology to pay less, consume less, work less, and become less dependent, less of a burden, and more independent and free through economic liberty.

Nonetheless, royalty isn’t comprised of the rich alone. It is also the protected. The union protect tier-1 workers whose guaranteed comfort makes up for their lower wealth. Like the rich, a union-protected economic royalty expects society to give them their (protected) wealth and comfort in exchange for lifelong subservience. This is illustrated through their continuous contract disputes over such things as pensions and benefits, which a new, average worker will never get (even if the new worker works for the same company and does the same job). The protected economic royalty share many attributes with their richer royal siblings, except they have greater numbers, so union members diffuse their benefits more widely. The union members are still merely individuals whose mindset is based on the original deal: sacrifice your individual economic liberty for economic security. So far, our society complies and refuses to adapt because its power holders refuse to let go.

Both the wealthy and the union protected, which usually rigidly favor either the Left or the Right, have the security and incentives they require to use their wealth for their own ends. Since both are merely members of a system that thinks, as per our foundations, individual choice is the path to continued prosperity, they don’t see anything wrong with selfish actions and the creation of luxury property. Their power gives them the political means to protect their luxury wealth even when a debt crisis shows that selfishness doesn’t result in prosperity. Thus, we have continual stimulus spending and tax cuts and growing government debt to pay for both at the expense of the rest, and both members of the Left and the Right continue pursuing luxury property.

Luxury property is any property that goes beyond its function. Functions that benefit society by solving a problem morph into a spectacle meant to flatter the individual. Simple items, such as pens, moisturizers, and calculators, become new products, such as totally redesigned revolutionary cars, glide pens, new and exciting lash extenders, mint coco lip balm, automatic staplers, and redesigned Pepsi cans. Look at the ads on network television or in Vanity Fair, Star Magazine, and The Economist to see what products are luxury items. Most, if not all, will be based on merely dazzling an individual’s vanity because the products are actually old news. Our rich and protected royalty revel in the vanity of this spectacle because they are members of the corporations that sell vanity, and they enjoy the consumer lifestyle. This is illustrated by the royalty’s lifestyles, which include chrome products, increasingly greater horsepower, redesigned chic clothing, and especially, their homes, which are nothing but modern day Palaces of Versailles.

Our royalty, both the rich and protected, control many of society’s functions and benefit from them being based on luxury and spectacle. They are interested in maintaining how society operates and, therefore, resist economic privatization and the return of economic power to the individual. Society’s continued protection of the economic royalty’s outdated and unnaturally sustained private property constitutes the abuse of private property as legally protected economic power is just like legally protected political power, and it is just as inhibiting because it can’t adapt.

Just as legally protected political power avoided burdens, such as taxation and civic duty, and used their power to steal from the system with tithes, so do our royalty who rarely pay taxes, avoid civic duties, and find ways to skim from the system, especially with tithes. Because they didn’t protect anyone, few appreciated the descendants of the warrior nobility, so few would actually pay them anything willingly. Thus, the nobility had to take money from the system to subsidize their entitlements with tithes which were not official taxes, but rather fees of about 10% on most everything produced in a nobleman’s territory. Similarly, the curators of economic power need ways to skim from the system, such as education tax credits, government subsidies/bailouts, bonuses, and mass marketing. Our economic royalty need to skim to avoid asking for money from anyone because, like the political royalty, they don’t earn their power. Through mass marketing alone, America loses $350 billion a year. Why? This is because these account managers, marketing executives, public relations directors, and so on can’t compete fairly anymore; they can’t create anything for you to buy or improve a products function, so to maintain their wealth, they have to skim from the system and distract the people from their dysfunction with spectacle. In summary, our economic royalty need to produce a spectacle to distract people from their shitty economic subservience with glitzy new products showered with models, saturated press coverage, high production television commercials, hyped movie premieres and so on. However this spectacle is rarely directly paid for, but is rather subsidized to keep people watching it. Thus, our economic royalty can’t ask you how much would you pay for Kim Kardashian, a supposed entertainer who embodies spectacle over function, otherwise people would begin to shut off the spectacle and see society’s, led by economic royals, dysfunction.

Even with all their abusive behavior, the economic royalty is also a victim. They are victims of our society, which places the authority with the selfish individual. After achieving political liberty, the individual had to commit to creating and concentrating economic power by subservience to it. So, to encourage individuals to participate in the consumer economy and because there was a correlation between what was good for society and good for the individual, society elevated the customer. The individual’s needs were society’s needs as well. Hence, as it was once wrong to question the king, it was also wrong to question the customer who is always right in our society. If the customer wasn’t always right, individuals wouldn’t want to be customers often enough to have contributed to the growth of our economic power. If the customer wasn’t always right, our corporations couldn’t exist because they wouldn’t be continually fed by the customers. However, like the king, economic power must now be validated. Like the king who didn’t want to run for elections, the modern customer will not want to have a reciprocal relationship with the customer service representative, store clerk, or restaurant manager that the customer is used to bossing around. Thus, now when a customer is an asshole, wasting everyone else’s time and resources, he should be told so, and his actions should not be tolerated. The asshole customer often wouldn’t be tolerated by a local shop owner who deals with his clients himself, unlike a regional manager who never sees the person but requires his (increasingly foreign) workers to deal with him.

This process of economic privatization is the essence of our economic development. Our royalty, however, refuse to see this because their power is based on a previous era in which massive corporations service self-indulgent consumers. Our economic royalty don’t question their products functional contributions to society anymore, and they label our economies developed (i.e., finished); then, they flock to developing economies because developing economies are locations where their old economic power can still be applied, leaving us to struggle. This is why they love China and why they miss the very idea of national development. National development is the belief we in the developed world could be doing so much better than the our aged, unhealthy, indebted economies are doing now.

If our system has bad leaders, it must have bad followers. These are the consumers who (necessarily) sacrificed their economic rights and were rewarded with economic security. Now, however, these followers merely subjugate themselves and enrich the royalty. They must stop, reflect, and seek economic liberty. For those who want to go on mindlessly consuming, you might be a peasant, an unreflective individual needlessly subjugating himself.

This divide between current winners and losers is generally seen in the young and old. The old represent the established economic royalty who are not adapted to digital property. They are like moss covering an old growth forest, covering everything but doing very little for the ecosystem. Their winning status is the result of forcing society to maintain their positions. The old usually don’t even know how to work a computer, yet they thrive above those who use a computer as naturally as walking—during the era of digital property. It is up to the young to break through and adapt the ecosystem to build a better forest, a better society. The young can do this first by recognizing 65 years is a good life, and the bill passed on from the old to the young to sustain their way of life is something we’re not going to pay; the young must not let the bill and inhibit our adaptation to better life on Earth.

What hold this abuse in place are our foundations. Our foundations were political demands for individual liberty, equality, and rights enabled by the gun. However, our foundations couldn’t include economic liberty, rights, and equality without digital property. With digital property, individuals can begin to experience equality, liberty, and rights in economics, and similar to independent and sovereign democratic governments throughout the world, countries having economic sovereignty from each other means peoples can adapt to their different circumstances. Since economic (material) needs lag behind political (safety) needs, economic rights have not been fought for yet. Our political minds are more developed than our economic ones. We can see this if we try to argue with a stranger on what he should buy; in the same manner when argue on how we each should vote. In politics, we argue for the common good (even if it’s usually biased) and try to reason with others to vote for the political leader or policy we think is best. With economics, we don’t argue at all. This is because in politics we’ve learned our political leaders and policies must meet our community’s needs and standards. In economics, we have no communities and no standards because the individual’s economic choice (i.e., the customer is always the right philosophy) cannot be questioned. Thus, when questioning what someone should buy, their arguments will not be based on the usefulness of their choices, as it is in politics, but on your how wrong it is that you are asking the question.

So, rejoin individual economic choices based on actual needs. When mixed with digital property, our choices will cause true economic development. We can do this by privatizing our expensive free market by segmenting our economies along national lines, which is the opposite of what we are doing now. We constantly look to increase the market and the money supply. Money allows an economy to increase in the number of its participants, thereby increasing its economies of scale and levels of production, but this economizing process also increasingly distances users from their own products/services and, after economic prosperity, encourages selfish behavior. Thus, a consistently growing free market eventually grows inefficient, causing debt. This is where we are today, and it is the increase in money that causes our indebtedness. Fewer resources are good for us. With less money, a smaller labor pool, and fewer resources, the individual will need to validate her choices. Individuals’ wants will then become needs, and satisfying those needs and wants with digital property will adapt our society to our new circumstances. Society will moderate its community and individual interests. Would any equal member of an economy help another member build a car so he can drive 100 miles to work every day? It is doubtful because few people would return such a selfish favor. Thus, our economics needs to about-face and embrace higher costs and fewer things that function better as these things actually satisfy needs and allow for a social surplus.

Our economic rationale is the opposite, is still based on not having much economic power. By massively pooling the world’s economic resources through increasingly free trade, larger monetary unions, and more open labor markets, our economic rationale today is essentially the Titanic on a tightrope, which attempts to ensure safety, consistency, and efficiency by creating one market and ensuring its continued success, hedging against failure with size. In addition to the inability of that rationale to adapt to circumstance, it also means that when a failure occurs, the fall is much harder, which is seen in the worldwide financial markets that bind and fuel our global economy and how they gyrated when one member, Lehman Bros., filed for bankruptcy in 2008.

Who will break this system? The youth, nature’s adapters. Where the elders have economic concentration in their minds, increasingly more of our youth have economic liberty and digital property on theirs. The youth do not want to be wealthy, accepted, or subservient; they want economic liberty and its accompanying and true equality. The youth post their knowledge on internet forums, they communicate faster and cheaper over the internet, and they trust the more efficient internet for things like commerce and education. The youth are becoming increasingly what the rugged, individualistic, and liberty-demanding American frontiersman was to political oppression. Thus, the youth struggle in the current system because they do not fit in it. Therefore, some of the youth have even begun to fight back using digital property, like their forebears used the gun. This is why the hacktivist group Anonymous are the modern day Minutemen. Anonymous are the Sons of Liberty who are privatizing economic power by spreading and protecting digital property throughout society because they know its power. Anonymous, like many youth today, do not want to know what mass marketing, professors, critics tell them, but want to know what Facebook thinks about a political leader, or a new running show. The youth want to go to Wiki-versity, a online database of lessons, read free ebooks that many write and edit and information that is up to the individual to learn from, and  the youth are ready to eliminate the use of spectacle to hide our economic power holders’ dysfunction by asking who is Kim Kardashian?

The youth promote the digital replacements of the established functions in our society. Digital replacements are markers of economic development because they are vastly cheaper, vastly more efficient, vastly more inclusive, and real—real in the sense they fulfill the function they are meant to fulfill. It is with these digital replacements and through open access that actual knowledge and ability. Digital property is adaptable to a person’s individual strengths. Thus, measures of success are real and functional. Either a wannabe cook taught via internet lessons can cook better or not. Either a film on YouTube makes a person laugh, or it does not. Either an app sells on the app store or not. Either a person has read a lot of e-textbooks or not. Success is real and does not require recognition from the system as a graduate or winning an award. It doesn’t matter what an official teacher or a reviewer thinks. Either I’ll order a new water bottle from the 3D Printing Shop, or I won’t, but my decision will be based on why I need it not on how famous the actress/endorser is on SmartWater bottles. These digital upgrades of societal functions are sparks of progress as we adapt to our new circumstance.

Just think of the savings digital property offers us. Think of all the resources we currently waste. Think of all the very unhealthy overeating we do and how overeating is an inefficient way to get nutrients. Think of the 280 days of commuting to a corporate “castle” so many do just to make phone calls and use another computer terminal to send emails. Think of four cars per family just to get around. Think of all the new clothing purchased every season. Take a look at a picture of sports fans watching a game in the 1940’s and contrast it with today; you will see the high-priced ball caps, jerseys, and all the branded/trademarked paraphernalia on today’s fan, and think of all the wasted work/money. Isn’t it a bit off that a baseball player needs $25 million to play baseball, but an Army general in Afghanistan can fight a war for $190,000, or that a soldier volunteers for combat? It’s because a general, and soldier today volunteer to fight, while a worker must be paid too. Before the American Revolution, generals and their mercenary soldiers were the wealthy in society who were prioritized because society needed protection and order above all else and peasant soldiers either fought or were expelled from the land to see their wife and children starve. That is until technology privatized political power with the gun, as digital property will with economic power.

There’s so much more savings with digital property. Think of an alarm clock, a phone, a cell phone, a computer, a 13th–edition of a textbook, a calculator, a TV, a magazine; all these books and devices that are made totally redundant by a one iPad—and then ask if any iPad owners actually replaced these items or if they just added another item to their collection. All of society’s property and items will be put to this redundancy test. In economic privatization, all our property, filled with imagined and self-indulgent worth, will be reduced to their glorious functional truth via a economic enlightenment. Think of how much more efficient we could be/are living when we reduce our monetary needs. These people are currently somewhat jokingly referred to as survivalists, but their motivation is just independence, and this will be how we live because we have reduced our monetary needs by living more efficiently rather than based not on our wants, but on our needs. It is the youth who understand digital property and want begin adapting our economy with it. They can adapt because they want fewer items and more freedom, so unlike a traditional worker who gets fired from a job, they don’t ask but what will I do? Instead, they accept that their material needs are increasingly their own problem because they accept less material in favor of economic liberty. This is something the old simply cannot grasp. It has not been a part of their own circumstances.

Silicon Valley was the birthplace of digital property. When the Treacherous Eight broke from a rigid corporate structure, to develop and produce the first electronics, they also adapted a new culture to include economic liberty. Generations in development this culture has spread throughout the economy and increasingly into the minds of those who develop and use digital property. The book Rework is a great example of how the young, using with digital property, will operate society’s functions. From successful experience, it tells business owners how to run a modern business, essentially by reducing the need for reworking. Among the book’s chapters are: “The New Reality,” “Don’t Copy,” “Start Making Something,” “What Do You Really Need,” “Throw Less at the Problem,” “Welcome Obscurity,” “Marketing is not a Department,” “Forget about Formal Education,” “Do It Yourself,“ and “Why Grow.” The book advocates solving someone’s problem with a product. It doesn’t matter how problem solving is managed, i.e., how employees dress or when office hours are, unless that is part of someone’s problem, why would those things matter in solving it the problem? Rework is a blueprint for how the youth will dismantle our economic concentration using digital property and reciprocation and improve all of our society’s functions. While reading, please make a note to compare rework with how corporate America operates and, therefore, how America’s economy operates.

With our current foundations we cannot see our failings. We cannot express our failings because our foundations do not allow us to question our foundations. For example, in most of our stories of future human societies, we see a society based not on function, but on spectacle used to distract the people from dysfunction. We see dystopias filled with rampant advertisements, powerful corporations abusing weaker individuals, and environmental catastrophe, like in Blade Runner, Alien, or Wall-E, because we don’t question our foundations, and we only see their continuance, resulting in spectacle and degradation (its why futuristic flying cars are so prevalent, as if so much physical transportation will be needed when the digital transportation of letters, schooling, books, videos, soap, and food, are privatized through digital property, disabling the need for individuals to use so many cars to go to pick stuff up. If the technology exists to make a car levitate, are we still going to be hauling Blu-Ray discs bottles of water, paper magazines, car parts, light bulbs, and so forth around a worldwide production system, or will we figure out how to make things locally using streamed video, water purification, 3D printing, emailing, and computerized indoor farms?). When we dream of our future, however, we break our ties to our foundations, we imagine a functioning society with new foundations more in tune with Star Trek, where technology just works to fulfill our needs as was just dreamed above in replacing cars by producing our needs locally. It is why William Shatner changed the modern world and why we must question our foundations. As of now, we do not question, so we do not adapt; hence, we suffer. Thus, our economies are inefficient and unnatural. Unwilling to separate from our circumstances, we are essentially camels trying to live in the Amazon.

# Google It

This section is easy enough to explain. If a person or a company needs anything, they can find it, whatever it is and whenever they need it. Enter a few words, which don’t even have to be spelled correctly, and anyone’s need for driving directions, a healthy dinner recipe using what’s left in the fridge, or what a tithe is will be either solved or be well on the way to being solved with Google. Google even places convenient, because they’re relevant, little ads in your search that often help you fulfill your need. Google is a monumental achievement because it replaces expensive physical transportation with cheap digital transportation.

All needs can be transported more easily and cheaper using Google. Individuals are free to adapt to their needs with Google. Google wastes far less. It doesn’t try to create a need, and then conveniently solve it for us, like marketers do. It doesn’t tell us we have stains on our shirts, and then say only a new product will remove them or that our teeth aren’t white enough; therefore, we need new toothpaste with lemon cheery blast that still has the same sodium fluoride in it. No. Google works so well that it can sit there and be used when we need it, and because it works, we use it. Because it is digital property, it is cheap enough to operate that it is independent. Thus, it can be honest and tell us to use club soda to remove a stain instead of a triple-action-packed stain remover or toothpaste with bubbling crystals or to hire a seamstress to repair a pair of jeans instead of buying a new one. It is so simple and functions so well; Google is a landmark of human development, and that’s just Google search; this doesn’t even consider how helpful its other services, like Maps, Android, Chrome, Gmail, Scholar, Video, and Blogger, are. Or how much more helpful its future services will be.

This article argues that Google’s success is tied to three things. The first is function. Google works. It works so well that it lets individuals make use of all the property, knowledge, web pages, craftsmen that exist out there. It helps society transport its things, ideas, and digitized property much, much better.

The second thing that makes Google successful is its adaptability, which results in the segmentation of the world economy. Ironically, a worldwide force helps segment the worldwide economy. It’s true, however. A company no longer has to gain exposure in the marketplace by finding a slogan that will stay in people’s minds or hire a football running back to sell hair dye; it doesn’t have to trick people with their own money to create a problem so a supposedly new product can solve it. It doesn’t have to make people peasants. Rather, it empowers the individual. A company, any company no matter how big or small, can depend on its real-world reputation, and it can be found on Google. It can rise in Google searches, gain credibility through forums and customer reviews, or a company can pay a bit of money to appear on Google AdWords. Since people live locally, their genuinely created private needs are local; therefore, they Google local solutions to those needs. Nobody searches where to find Pepsi because everyone already knows where to find Pepsi, so why is Pepsi producing spectacular ads? Because no one wants to Google Pepsi but hopefully, say Pepsi’s account managers and executives, people will Google Pepsi’s spectacular celebrity ads. Needs can be solved using Google, not with a Pepsi or other mass marketing campaign, because needs are local. Solving local needs equals better human adaptation to the problems brought on by our own circumstance, which results in economic development. All of this is enabled by Google (or other similar technologies).

The third way Google illustrates human development is through reciprocation. The simple act of freely returning a favor to another, described in the privatization of our expensive free market, perpetuates good work. If people ask for help with real needs, then individuals will be far more inclined to work because they will be helping themselves also as seen today when soldiers volunteer when before they were forced or purchased. Reciprocation is economic accountability; it’s where a person’s word means something because more people will personally deal with each other and hold each other accountable. If a person knows his baker, for example, ensuring quality/healthy bread is easier than it is for today’s brand bread with an uninvolved and uninterested person at a call center or supermarket. Also, a big benefit, when the customer is being an ass and wasting resources by over eating (and thus over working the baker), or by wasting time through unrealistic demands, is that the baker can straighten the customer out or demand more money, similar to what happens when friends are being dicks to other friends. Most importantly, our political arguments about more or less market regulation (plumbing standards, MD’s malpractice liability, environmental protocols, or as here , food standards) are also reduced because individuals handle these issues themselves through economic reciprocation. If a person has an economic community, he will be less inclined to do things that need regulation, such as pollute, inappropriately sue a doctor, or mishandle food, because it is his environment, his doctor, and his food he is handling.

When you Google it, as we say, you are developing humanity. The same rationale applies to GroupOn, Facebook, CrossFit, tablets, eBay, Craigslist, Tough Mudder, Twitter, EcoLogo soap, P2P sharing sites, AirBnB, Uber, Khan Academy, internet shopping, cloud computing, YouTube, Amazon, solar power, Netflix, Tesla, SpaceX, and Apple, and others similar technology, all of which are or will be successful because they adapt more effectively to the technology of our times. However, these products do not yet attack their old economy hold overs. Their services function better in the economy they are meant to service. They get the function done and require less involvement from others, and they interfere with others less, requiring less government regulation. They reciprocate to local economies. This is why they prosper in our economy and in our circumstance.

We should, thus, Google the entire worldwide economy. Peter Thiel explains how to technically do this upgrade in Zero To One: Notes on Startups or how to Build the Future. Although to date, only a small portion of our economy has been upgraded, consumer items like friend interactions (Facebook) or individual to individual payments (PayPal), or indivdual economic advertisements (Craigslist), precisely because individuals are not yet free from the herd of economic concentration to choose the better options for the remaining, and more numerous, parts of their lives.

# Forget the Green Revolution

## How to Google It

So if Google and the other prospering services are our examples of economic reciprocation and privatization, how do you Google the entire economy? We use what we have in our political economy: the Left and the Right. These are our avenues for political and economic action, and what else can we use but what we got?

The Right and the Left are siblings, but they’ve grown apart. They don’t even talk anymore. This separation caused their simplification, further encouraging the two simple narratives of modern politics. Still the Right and the Left are siblings. They are born from a society that banded together to destroy tyranny, and then they created economic power together. Whilst doing so, they went back and forth, literally left and right, and alternatively pursued the two halves of economic concentration, which are equal opportunity and equal outcome. The latter is for Leftists who think the individual needs protection from economic concentration, while the former is for Rightists who think the individual needs freedom to act within the economy. The Right obsesses over wealth accumulation, and the Left obsesses over wealth distribution, but both components seek wealth creation. With prosperity came the end of reliance on each other, so the two sides divorced; one spits elitist, the other socialist, accusations, and strict Rightists and Leftists communities filled the void of a shrinking community that once included both. Each side began obsessing over their half of society. They spouted simplified, unchallenged, half-truths preaching to two separate choirs.

Regardless of their current simplicity, these are the political narratives we have. These are the narratives that create political action. They are old and adapted to economic growth. We must make them new so they are adapted to economic reciprocation and privatization through digital technology, but how?

We take what we need from the Left and the Right, and we discard the rest. However, neither sibling questions their parents’ genes. This would, by extension, force them to question themselves, so they say their sibling is getting it wrong instead. Thus, individualism and our foundations are never questioned. Neither thinks their actions are the problem in our debt-laden society because how could individual choice not be divine? Much like how God changed from guiding his believers from above, being to behind their factions of Catholic, Orthodox, or Protestant, our Constitutions, Declarations and laws born from our own human reason, is now behind the factions of Right and Left.

Therefore, the only political action they agree on is advancing individualism. As any observer knows, in our society a good economy takes political priority, so in a society run by the Right and the Left, we get their hallowed economic ideologies. We get more individual wealth distribution (government programs) and more individual wealth ownership (lower government taxes), depriving community of its wealth. When mixed with unreflective political actors in the Right and the Left, we get simple arguments of government vs. business, private vs. public, and equal opportunity vs. equal outcome. Nevertheless, to get economic reciprocation, privatization, and economic advancement, we will have to join these simplified narratives.

How can that be done? It is done the same way change is forced upon nature. No cheetah ever ran faster because she wanted to; she only did so because the antelope ran faster, and she either had to run faster or died from starvation. Adaptations happen because of necessity. Therefore, for us to adapt, we need think about how we reconnect the individual with the communal while we are bound by the simple, unmovable political narratives of the Right and the Left. How do we make the choices of the individual consider the community and help our society become functional? How do we privatize the economy? We do this by using what we have, the Left and the Right, and that means creating a grand compromise—Leftist ends via Rightists means.

Leftists want wealth distribution to be socially equal and inclusive; Rightists want wealth creation to ensure order and responsibility. Leftists don’t really care how income is distributed; they just want it distributed to fulfill their goals of individual empowerment. They care about the ends. Rightists don’t really care who gets the wealth; they care that it is earned and not given away, fulfilling their goal of individual self-sufficiency. They care about the means. These two ends must join to adapt to our era of economic privatization.

What other options do we, or did history, have? If a consistently increasing worldwide market becomes inefficient and wasteful because it encourages freeloading and nonfunctional luxury property, Rightists refuse to let us regulate the market (because it encourages dependency), and we can’t let the market go unhindered (because it encourages wealth concentration and leaves many out of luck ), then how do we fix our economics? We fix them by combining the Left and the Right and taking the best from each.

This results in economic privatization and reciprocation, segmenting our worldwide free market. Cut the individual off from their selfish actions and make the individual once again hungry, cold, and tired, and the individual will either adapt or die. Make individuals’ choices fulfill needs, not wants. Give incentives when the individual makes responsible choices (as Rightists want), and they will become more empowered (as Leftists want). Make local market greed fulfill local market need. Let the individual make as much money/collect as many favors as a person can, but make him do it locally. A person making money locally will be forced to solve the problems of local people, servicing their needs and empowering their neighbors. Do this, and we will make many economic markets whose only choice is to become self-sufficient through digital technology, which can be used to adapt to a community’s circumstances because the people have no other choices. Thereafter, the individual will earn their equality by making choices that will lead them toward economic liberty. This is similar to the Google It process.

This process will be one of economic development (not growth). This process will improve function and systematize economics with reciprocation the same way democracy has changed politics via accountability in a civil society. Economic privatization will dismantle the rigid, inefficient, economic concentration and return individual choices, fulfilling individual needs.

Economic reciprocation and privatization will be roughly what our political narratives incorrectly see as the Green Revolution. Leftists see the Green Revolution as a holistic lifestyle few prescribe to or a method for battling climate change in scientific speak few can understand. Rightist see the Green Revolution and literally think tyranny because anything that limits economic choice is tantamount to limiting individual freedom. Rightists have taken the flagpole of economic growth and held so firm that they do not see it as their new subservience. They are actually plugged into a (electrical) system of dependence.

However, choosing economic liberty is a possibility through digital property. It will be energy efficiency, enabling self-sufficiency and economic liberty. Give the individual the power (as leftists demand), and let them do with it what they want (what rightists want). This will make a functioning society.

The Left and Right cannot see this shared goal (yet). However, both have what economic development needs. It is because they do not interact that economic privatization doesn’t happen. They’re trained to see political tyrants, so without any, they see each other as a tyrant. Their respective narratives cannot surrender, so they cannot compromise and adapt to our times. They should, however, and eventually; they’ll have too.

Think of it. What will people choose when concentrated resources, such as labor markets and the money supply, are reduced? Through this process, better economic function will be revealed, and our society will move toward the community we keep attacking. What is a better function, and what is economic development? It is whatever solves real, local, human problems the best. It is what delivers actual individual material needs, like transportation, nutrition, heat, and shelter, cheaper than anything else with less of a need for others’ involvement.

For example, what number does one call if Google doesn’t work? There isn’t one. Google doesn’t have a call center, and it doesn’t even have instructions. It just works to find and transport an infinite number of stupendous sources of information, data, and property. All of the world, and in many respects most of history, science, and entertainment, all the knowledge humanity has, is at your fingertips right now because of Google, and it works, it functions. Has Google ever not started up for you?

Now, what about your car? What number do you call if your car doesn’t work? There thousands of numbers and very unlike Google as a means of content distribution/transportation, the car requires massive amounts of interdependency that must be built, distributed, fueled, insured, serviced and regulated. A car has large manuals, detailed instructions, and isn’t all that good at carrying the physical property for which it replaced a horse and carriage. It’s also quite expensive to buy, operate and insure, maybe just a tad more than Google’s price tag of $0.00.

So, what is a better indication of economic development? Notice the difference. One requires countries, such as China or the Middle East, to stay alive, while the other scorns such places. One requires government bailouts; the other is flush with cash. One requires users to be dependent on others to fuel and operate it; the other doesn’t. One requires insurance protection in the millions of dollars; one doesn’t. One requires many HR managers and salespeople; the other depends on engineers and inventors. One forces most everyone in society to work to sustain its growth; the other lets natural mothers, writers, and children stop pretending to be workers all the time. Society’s protection of Google is simply the return of a favor for its very helpful service. Society’s protection of a car company is a way to keep individuals employed and less inclined to rely on themselves.

Now apply this standard to the products for sale today. It’s not that pens, shoes, makeup, and cars won’t exist in the future, it’s how many and what types will exist. Buying a 20-pack of pens when two are needed is silly and wasteful, but observe the annual back-to-school shopping trends, and you will see that such waste is common. Buying an incandescent light bulb is even worse as it requires replacement and fuel far more often. For the bigger items, like cars, only those who need one will own one because they’ll need others’ favors to use it. Would someone value an ambulance, delivery truck, or police cruiser enough to ensure it exists? What about someone else’s weekend Porsche, if yes they’d really have to earn the Porsche, no? Would a typical person buy a Porsche if they insured it and its risk of ownership (property or injury damage) themselves and weren’t loaned cheap money and credit to get someone else to build, maintain , and insure it? They’d probably drive slower, or rent (share) the car instead, reducing the amount of material society needs to build and maintain. If the individual wants their own super car, they’d have to buy a car that required less involvement from others, which reveals the true value of the electric car with 10x fewer parts and electric fuel instead of gas. Gas cars will still exist, of course; there just won’t be so many, and they won’t be used as often because their use will be validated by a need.

Individual choices will fulfill community needs once again. Rush hours would not exist. Would those car owners or their bosses substitute their labor for the mechanic if the mechanic didn’t need to work (i.e., was on the way to economic liberty), could choose when to work for who, and could decide if subsidizing a 65-mile-per-day commute (often enforced by a manager not allowing telecommuting for his own self-preservation) was worth his labor? Would the mechanic ask why he can’t just use Google to transport work to him instead of transporting himself to work? That 65-mile trip would get smaller pretty fast. The unappealing purple tint of a LED light would go away if the owner had to make the energy for the white-light light bulb. As these choices are made and the tools that liberate the individual flourish during privatization, the old tools that require this dependence will not last long, the same way political tyranny fell in the face of political liberty. Thus, our society will develop economically because we will, once again, produce more than we consume when people consume more of what they have produced, moderating their choices.

Car commuting will be replaced with telecommuting. Corporate castles would be multifunctional. Light bulbs will become LED’s much faster. Spectacle movies such as Spider-Man 6 will be replaced with good stories that surprise and excite the American audience. Manicured lawns will be replaced with manicured vegetable gardens, providing healthier nutrition for a healthier society, replacing poor communal food grown as efficiently as possible, making us argue over how to fix the problems resulting from poor nutrition we have today. There are no Trans fats in homemade food, and we wouldn’t mass gorge on locally grown food because the work is privatized and greater prices would be charged for excess. Few people freely wanting to work at McDonald’s is the solution to so many people eating at McDonalds.

Our politics won’t be comprised of bickering as that televised on cable news. This bickering is a constant problem in the Right or the Left’s ideology in which one is sacrificed to allow the other to survive. This bickering is eliminated by asking why someone overeats, drives a lot, or takes a 30-minute shower. These wants will have to be reciprocated from another (to return a favor you provided) or will have to be paid for by the person consuming the need, resulting in lower food supplies, energy supplies, or water supplies (making the issue moot because no one else is involved). These examples will continue and expand as people fulfill their needs with their own choices. This is because individual choice within a community forces better choices. In short, there is a conservatism to green; the melding of two ideologies to take the best of each and discarding the rest.

This convergence will solve the problems the Left and the Right seek to solve. A smaller market using digital technology to fulfill its needs means an individual who lives cheaply has the freedom to be treated respectfully by his employer, and so doesn’t need protection, as he would with a union, which also means that a bad worker won’t get the exploitive protection that drives employers crazy, but in return employers wont have access to foreign labour that devalues the worker so much. Health costs will be paid for individually, encouraging better health choices, and insurance help will be sought only in truly bad times. Does anyone ask a friend to pay for his root canal because he didn’t floss? Why should an abstract friend pay for it? These are the Leftist’s ends via the Rightist’s means, resulting in economic privatization.

This grand compromise will dismantle the non adaptive economic concentration, exploiting our vast, hidden potential. An example of that wasted potential can be seen here. This process will result in individual choice shifting through options that function more effectively. It will eliminate our politics seeing a community concern as tyranny as the new tyrant of needless economic subservience is revealed. This economic tyrant was necessary, but it is increasingly not necessary as digital property expands to replace the old functions that quite literally seeded their own fall, which happens with any offspring as it replaces its parent and adapts its species to different circumstances. With upgrading our periodic table of functions with digital property and economic privatization, our closed, accountable, functioning body politic will grow to include a body economic.

# The Vinne Chase Offer

So, what does all this mean? All the theory and supposition, all the words and ideas written in this article have a destination, a goal. This goal is concerned with how people will live their lives in the future when people develop and find economic liberty in a economic community.

To see it now, look to Vincent Chase, the main character on Entourage, a story of fame, fortune, and the good life. Vince is a man who is offered it all, and he takes it and enjoys it with his three closest friends. Although this is not exactly applicable, it is much closer than most any contemporary would think. For instance, Vince Chase stresses about many things. He is stressed about being granted the movie role he wants others to give him. He stresses about breakfast not being right or his friends not being happy. He stresses about forgetting to say goodbye to a girl, loving his mother, or whether or not his movie will be any good. His stresses about how well he’s doing his job for the audience, his friends, and even strangers. He wants to earn and return others’ favors. He wants to be honest. He doesn’t want the one-way favor of contemporary money. Thus, he doesn’t stress about materialism, despite having it all, he loses it as often as he has it. He doesn’t stress about greater wealth accumulation through the advancement of the concentration of economic power. He doesn’t stress about paying the bills or keeping all his material possessions; he doesn’t stress about what others have, and he definitely doesn’t stress about having loyal friends. Friendship he has in spades; therefore, he is always a wealthy man.

Vincent Chase spends his daily life with his friends, not occasionally, not on some weekends or when the boss gives him have a day off. His life is spent with his friends. He eats well because Johnny Drama can cook, has constant support because Turtle is so loyal, and often gets good advice because E is intelligent. Although E and Turtle don’t really like each other, everyone still strongly supports each other, keeps each other honest, and they are usually good for a laugh, making all their lives happy. All four benefit from each other by offering different perspectives and skills; Vince doesn’t need to drive a car or cook well for the same reason Drama can pursue his acting dreams, a college drop-out can manage a movie star, and a guy named Turtle can hit on hot girls. People contribute/reciprocate in the economy without being official workers, and each member of the Entourage participates more efficiently/effectively/carefully/honestly than if they worked for a stranger. Because no one lives alone, Vincent Chase isn’t alone. This is a novelty to us, individualists.

Vincent Chase is a free man. He has economic liberty, but not because he has wealth. The wealthy today always need more, and are, therefore, always poor in their own minds. Vince Chase is free because he has enough economic material to live, and his life isn’t defined by getting more but by having fun and being honest (by being a good friend, actor, stranger, and son). Ironically, people watching the show because envy him, but they don’t try to be like him.

Vincent Chase talks about his materialism when he is told that he needs to take a boring blockbuster movie role he doesn’t want over a good play he’d rather do. He said, “and as much as I love all the toys, I really don’t need them.” His version of materialism is like the weather; sometimes it’s good, and sometimes it’s bad. With either, he makes the best of what he has, and he does not demand that he be in control of it. He has the fame and fortune we, contemporaries, crave, but he would be just as happy and have just as much fun if he was living it up in Queens with his friends. This is because he has liberty. Have you ever noticed how in Entourage, or any TV show for that matter, no character spends much time watching television programs? It’s because doing it, living the story, being athletic, being social, eating good food, and having a happy life is more interesting than pretending to be or have those things, as those without economic liberty are forced to. Vince Chase represents the typical man of the future.

For now it is as comical to read as it is to write, but it is true. Take the dreams and aspirations of most Americans 200 years ago, and you will see what’s inside your fridge, a sturdy house, good health, a vote in government, and a toilet. Today, people want Entourage, the fame and the glamour, because that is the way we get others’ attention and respect; it is the only way to get liberty and community.

Now, economic liberty can begin to be privatized. Every political philosophy that a society adopts to adapt to its circumstances needs a typical man, the embodiment of the morals and traits a person should have, so society can function within its circumstances. In Medieval Europe, it was the pious man. In nationalists France, it was the Frenchman. In early America, it was the citizen and frontiersman. During our economic boom, it was the employee. A typical and idealized person is one who will help society best adapt to its circumstances. In lean times, during times of distress and war, a person must be happy to become resourceful, strong, and brave, for example. In our philosophy today, the ideal person is individualistic, materialistic, tolerate. It is this person who works the hours, drives the miles, works the machines, writes the endless software, obeys the boss, integrate into a world wide economy, and is happy to both produce and consume things just so society can build them. It is this man that society needed; anyone else would have quit when the foreman demanded he make up three minutes when he was late after an hour commute, smash the computer screen when Windows 95 froze again, or paid off his stuff and lived meekly with only what he needs instead of becoming indebted to buy a bigger TV, a McMansion, and all the other stuff millions upon millions have for no reason but to have it and do it again. If we saw ourselves from the top-down perspective, all we’d see is the population becoming workers building the economy.

However, just as it has been said throughout this article, our goal of solving our material needs with technology has been achieved with digital property. It’s time to make all our digital property function better. To do that, and to make the most of what we’ve built, we need new modes of technology and new orders of society. As that happens, we are given our actual (simple) material needs of water, food, and shelter, all of which will slowly be made independent of the communal interdependent marketplace via digital property. As this happens, we will also return to living as free, whole individuals within a proper community because we will no longer need to be consumers.

That is the life of Vincent Chase, and if not him, then someone else within the Entourage, which is just a small community. It is true that their lives are full of glitz and glamour, and they receive much attention, which people like because people like community, but this leads to another development in our society. The challenge is how to make room for others to get attention. Where will everyone’s community come from?

Our worldwide economic system consistently increases the size of our community which therefore decreases attention and involvement an individual could have from their society. Our worldwide economy thereafter sells involvement in society back to the individual. For example, millions of football fans don’t themselves play football, but rather watch a very limited number of teams play instead and cheer when someone else they will never meet receives accolades and victory. The same goes for popular music fans watching the Grammy’s or a teenage girl envying a model she will never see. However, this economizing prevents so many people from being involved (as happens in smaller communities such as high-school, or small towns), making many people pretend through television and pop culture that they are member to the society by wearing official sports team attire, or being member to a actors fan club. Thus, future segmentation of the world economy will not just prevail for economic reasons. Segmentation will allow more independent versions of cultures, cuisines, sports, games, music, parties, festivals, craftsmanship, designs, fashion, and manufacturing, and more involvement in all areas will mean more people can join in on the fun, not just in glitz and glamour, but in involvement, challenge, and reciprocation. Segmentation will spread the attention via privatizing economic power. Segmentation will have both moral and economic justification, the basics of which were explained in Privatize our Expensive Free Market and Who is Kim Kardashian?, which could just as easily be what is Tide, Ford, or Snapple, and these companies employ many managers, executives, agents, and so on, and sponsor the spectacle of the Kardashians and their ilk just to distract the public from their own irrelevance.

Vincent Chase’s way of life, of enjoying life with friends within a community and not seeking materialism, is better than ours. His life is more wholesome, enjoyable, fun, competitive, inclusive, constructive, and better functioning because it has adapted to our new circumstances of digital property. The allure of the Entourage lifestyle will attract people—it’s why we now watch and pretend. Like Ari Gold did so often for Vince, being economically independent and free is an offer made available to us chained individuals now, are we going to forget the old life, and take our new one?

## Take It

Society will take the opportunity and adapt to our times of economic privatization, but how fast society does adapt depends how fast its people leave the old system behind. How do you break this failing system? By people getting on with it and disregard the lazy nagging from those who want you to stay. Do this by living economic privatization and liberty. It is hard to sell spectacle to people who reject it (as movie theatre falling attendance already showcases), and it’s hard for a car maker to make money if people congregate online or walk more—a boss, a customer, and a debt collector can’t control you if aren’t in debt, and you won’t be in debt if you live modestly. You can now use digital property to live modestly. So, don’t demand jobs, work for yourself first using digital property to lower your bills and debt and fulfill your modest needs. When someone shows off his new Lexus, give him a call when it hits 105 degrees and he’s on I-90, when you are doing whatever you feel like, be it reading a classic novel or back braking labour helping a friend install a new solar water heater, as he watches the day through a window because he chose economic dependence and you chose economic liberty. Spread the word with your actions. Buy products that give you independence from others, live modestly and be healthy, depend on you and your friends more, and others less knowing that you are in the right because, in as a much as a requirement can be considered a right, acting economically independent is a requirement now; therefore, you are right.

If you must, you can easily attack lazy whiners who demand that you stay loyal to their system. Coyly ask them “if it was your property to do with as you pleased, why would you need me to protect it?” Ask the copyright holders, the health-insurance advocates, and the car enthusiast, “If you don’t want to consider the right option, one that is better for all of us, why are you talking to me and why do you need me?” Those from the Left who demand society’s money to pay for their redistribution ideology and those from the Right who demand society protect their wealth accumulation need you, the average person, to be involved because both ideologies require your dependence. Deprive them of your dependence because in as much as a requirement can be considered a right, dependence is now not a requirement, so they are not right.

However, that’s the old way, so forget about it. Just keep in mind our problem isn’t private property; that is and must remain a sacred right. Our problem is societal property (functions), which some people control and which individually owned digital property can begin to replace, liberating the individual from their subservience and society from its stagnation. Don’t think about taking someone’s possessions away. Just reclaim your independence. You can tell what a person’s possessions are (that must be left alone) versus what societal function is (what must be privatized) when other people make you buy something (formal education, broadcast television, electricity, junk food, etc.) that digital property is beginning to offer you for much cheaper or even free. You can still buy products, of course, but because no one can own them or you, you will purchase products because it’s better for you, not because a boss wants you to dress professionally, or because you need remodeled bathroom to stay in fashion. It is the same mentality as voting today. You choose whatever is best to do in politics, and now economics regardless of what anyone else says. Freedom of speech now includes freedom of action.

Don’t get too mad at the lazy, selfish whiners either. They’re just being who they are. Your anger makes the whiners think you care. Don’t get mad at the whiners because that would be like an antelope getting mad at a cheetah. The antelope doesn’t because its purpose is to run faster, so the cheetah must run faster too. The antelope shouldn’t confront the cheetah because it would just get caught. The system is the thing that gets angry at those who don’t adapt and, therefore, get left behind.

# Conclusion

This economic crisis isn’t temporary; it is the result of the outdated foundations of individual equality, rights, and liberty that need to be updated to include digital property and economic privatization. This article was written to illustrate why and to offer a narrative about our problems. I do not have the ability to prove this theory mathematically or time to write it in a book with appropriate references. This theory contradicts so much established knowledge, understanding, and operation that I doubt I could succeed even if I did try. I wrote this to maybe plant the seed of an idea that others could prove and, thus, maybe begin the adaption process. It feels ridiculous to write, nonetheless.

This article also explains what’s happening and why our economy can’t operate in surplus; why officials keep assuring us improvements will be seen in the next financial quarter; why we keep adding on debt; why the elders don’t care; why our housing bubble existed; why our society doesn’t function well; why are leaders keep hoarding money with no regard for their community; why the followers are distracted with celebrities; why individuals want electricity but not a local power plant, cheaper prices but higher wages, or what will be the most confusing to our future selves, a car per a person but no traffic on the roads. Individuals’ abuse of society goes on and on, which explains why companionship is so rare and frustration is so high, why our politics has been reduced to simple bickering, and why the youth are fighting back/rebelling using digital property for things like Wikileaks, BitTorrent’s and Anonymous hacktivism and using/adapting to share economy services like Uber and AirBnB. It is because we’ve been attacking our community for centuries (in all its forms and functions), thinking that only good will result because our foundations were born in the oppressive times of the non-functioning royal government. We won’t consider that with digital property, not all community, is tyrannical. We don’t question, so we don’t see that old tyranny is dead, and this crisis is saying that we are fighting the wrong fight.

This article’s central point is that individualism was properly used to grow economic prosperity, but it is now making our society non-functioning. We should, thus, incorporate the community and its reciprocation back into our society. To do that, we need economic boundaries, the same way democracies need political ones. Someone from Great Britain deciding who should govern Boston would never be tolerated today, so why can that same person from Great Britain have a hand in deciding what kind of economy Boston will have? Politics for the world use to be determined by political capitals in Europe when the nobles held such huge concentrations of political power, yet eventually that concentration became privatized with democratization throughout the world. Democratization usually happened with revolutions such as America’s in 1776, or France’s multiple attempts starting in 1789.

So it will again. The parallels between growing political and economic power continue because our society is based on growing economic power through the same foundation as political power growth. Each, according to nature, required concentration, but technological advancement brings privatization. The gun did this for political power, and digital property is doing this for economic power—although we aren’t consciously adapting to it the way we should. Because our choices are still being made based on our old foundations they are heavily biased towards what’s best for me, biased towards wants, and so economic power isn’t accountable/reciprocated yet. Thus, we waste our economic energy on luxury property the same way the political royalty did when they turned a knights armour to flamboyant dresses, castles into palaces, the people’s trust into the people’s Divine subjugation, whilst never questioning their function and squandered their power on excess such as the palace at Versailles, and a complete disregard of political equality because they had no accountability. Moreover, as the political revolutions neared, despite being written into society’s laws, the political capital of the political royalty showed it didn’t really exist; in reality their political equals (the people) hadn’t given/voted any capital to them. Same as today for the economic royalty whose massive concentrations of economic capital doesn’t really exist because their increasingly economic equals haven’t given/reciprocated capital/money to them. Economic royalty keep their capital by way of their controlling the economic system so have printed more money for themselves, taken on more debt, taken more bonuses, avoided more taxes, gotten government to subsidize and bail out their businesses, exported more production to poor countries, imported more economic mercenaries, or skimmed more money via mass marketing.

Thus, I concentrated on the affluent American suburbanites who control our society’s economic rudder. Their prosperity and their access to a free world market is unnatural because it encourages wasteful luxury property spending and inhibits economic development/adaptation; which is our problem. Expanding free trade has been our goal for centuries, and for that reason, few can see past it. Few can assign standards to property because our foundations tell us that any choice and, therefore, any property is good property. Our foundations, as summarized in the Businessweek quote at the beginning of this article, is now a simple guarantee that we can buy and do things that have no point greater than the satisfaction of our own happiness. However, these foundations only functioned when we had little, when people’s wants were their needs, and not the selfish wants we have today because of economic prosperity. This is the same thing the political royals had with their political power, which similarly needed standards after it achieved its purpose to build a secure government. These standards were competent political leadership ensured by frequent and fair elections, and limited government by way of checks and balances on government power to ensure governance doesn't degrade into oppressive tyranny and a kleptocracy. We today need economic standards for our choices, such as houses that are heated more efficiently, healthy food eaten regularly, and ebooks that are read more often. But as democracy needed political borders to enforce accountability, economies do too. Happiness must again mean the pursuit of happiness byway of earning economic liberty in a community. Free individual choice to demand must be qualified by another free individual choice to supply that demand or not. Just like when the gun allowed military conscripts to make way for citizen soldiers who defend their political communities without having or even wanting cannon fodder to join them, as the economic formations are broken up and sent home forever, true economic workers will be the deciders of economic function via economic enlightenment. Tim Kennedy and Ryan Dahl are the same person. Both will soon be left wondering which society, the old or the new, deserves their guardianship in what history will call "The Battle for Tim Kennedy's Heart". This natural addition/empowerment of a latent function into our human civilization just needs the establishment of the natural economic borders we ignore because of an addiction to old technology, cheap oil, and cheap labour.

To prove the point again, I offer a simple test. Hand someone a blank sheet of paper and a pen. Ask them to write down their name, their address, their phone number, and their hobbies. Keep requesting more detail until the page is filled. Now, notice that most everyone will have started writing in a larger font than they finished with. It’s human nature. Now, ask someone else to perform the exact same process, but give that person lined paper. The person will write inside the lines, saving paper while performing the exact same job. This results in better functioning for less, resulting in a social surplus that can be invested somewhere else. It is simple to read, yet analyze people’s actions in our economy, and you’ll see that it is very rare for people to buy what they need because they are not encouraged to do so. We have no lines.

The drive for a worldwide market created the paper, so to speak, banding together this way created the technology to give massive, widespread, material wealth, but it needs lines, segmentation, privatization, so we can use it more efficiently. As digital property is developed, consistently greater efficiencies will be found because individuals will have an incentive to find them. To continue the example above, the function of human interaction will transform from writing people’s names, phone numbers, address, resumes, medical histories, vehicle maintenance, and what not on paper to simply requesting a friend or accepting a doctor on Facebook, letting technology automate the process, freeing someone from having to produce the paper and pen, and freeing others from writing and filling out the forms—all that physical transfer digitized to better, store and therefore analyze and know ourselves and our actions—freeing us to do what we really need to. This will free up so much resources, so we can, perhaps, pursue the infinite universe out there. See what Elon Musk has created with relatively paltry wealth, and you’ll see the buds of human potential in adapting life. The ultimate economic function test is asking yourself “will this be on Mars?”, as it was once asking “will this exist in the New World?”.

If I’m right, this is a rare realization. The political actors in our society are so dependent on outdated foundations, and the resource limiting, concentration based, exclusionary technology (library's, lecture halls, televisions, newspapers, oil, cars, etc) those foundations are linked to, that they cannot see their failures. They are old, so they cannot adapt to digital property. Even when they do see faults, their loyalty preempts their questions, so they just blame their siblings who they say don’t properly understand their deceased parents’ wishes. Even if those parents are generations past, the Right and the Left idolize their wills, unable to realize their salvation is the other; local need solved by local greed using local resources to create sustainable worldwide bounty. The Right and Left are just like the loyalists of the old kings of Europe, and their followers, who upon the advent of the gun, still didn’t question the royalty, still believed in their divinity and, therefore, didn’t see that the royals had no functional contribution to society anymore. When they were removed, society put them right back again, until it finally learned that they weren’t required. A more recent example is the Sovietologists, who studied the Soviet Union in Western universities and not one member predicted the end of the Soviet Union because they couldn’t distance themselves from their topic of study—never mind the Soviet people, who were like us, trapped inside a set of foundations that were never questioned and led by rulers who believed and preached adherence to the rulers using fake economic data and thought the more the foundations were followed, be it ours run by similarly giant corporate business that foster conformity to failing foundations, or a Marxist-Leninist-Stalinist one, automatically created a better society. For us, our economists reject the (economic) enlightenment the new tools of digital property make possible. Digital property creates the lens to understand the effectiveness of our actions, choices, and projects. The telescope that revealed the natural world, is now pointed at us, and we are the next frontier in need of much greater understanding. But economists do not want to actually know what gives efficiency, surplus and the wealth of nations, instead they want to continue believing in the old system of endless self-referencing policy papers, economics of scale, comparative advantage, free trade; believing, preaching, converting others to the worldwide individualism that created our economic power because they’re too rational to bite the thoughts that feed them. They don’t have the rationality of irrationality (comedians, mental illness, poor, etc.) to see through the system they exist in.

Not questioning one’s foundations is natural, no animal can question their diet, physiology or instincts. Evolution to their circumstance does that for them. The Traitorous Eight blessedly started and invented the future for us, but their enlightened offspring have stalled at the walls and only disrupted the control of the economic royals and have not yet consciously attacked them. They are Vauban. They’ve made consumerism easier and more efficient, but haven’t freed many commuting, ever consuming, bored, ignorant, followers yet. But they have created the tools for liberté, égalité, fraternité to again sweep away an old society for a new one.

To reinvent society means we must question the individual throughout our society. From the checkout-till to corporate boardrooms we must know, individual choice is not always correct, not divine. We must, and will eventually, learn it's okay for an individual to not be the supposed king of his castle, it’s okay to defer to the group, because no neuron, no component, no particle is supposed to be isolated from its equal and specialized partners. But since we can’t question the individual, we can’t question our dreadful, isolated, ignorant, ancient economic choices. It is hard to argue with a typical person because they can’t see society’s foundations as temporary. Just try it. After serving a customer, give him an appraisal on his performance. Advise an unhealthy stranger in a restaurant what they should be eating. Tell a drunk driver he doesn’t deserve a rental car. After a friend shows off his new granite counter top, ask for help cutting yours out of a mountain, and he will be confused to no end. Who cares if he’s bribing a dependent stranger for it? That it’s a stupid choice he may agree with, that he wasted our society’s effort/money with it and that he shouldn’t have it, that it is morally wrong to have it, that he should be motivated by economic liberty, he will not understand. They will lament others materialism, but will still ask them to play peasant and "come over" to enjoy their owb materialistic grandeur, yet suburbanities increasingly don't even visit each other, don't have a community centre to meet up at, and basically live alone. A society of unknowing Charles Foster Kane's.

Keep trying. Judge our actions against all that’s been said. How many highways are shrinking to encourage digital transportation to replace physical transportation as a social function? How many politicians, our representatives of governance, stand up to petty, complaining constituents and call them poor citizens? Regardless of whether it’s accessed via the private or public sector, are we shrinking our healthcare insurance plans to limit communal resources and, therefore, force better individual health choices? How many people have used a 3D printer? Are Western businesses encouraged to reciprocate in their economies or bribe the needy, hungry masses somewhere else?  How often do companies rely on creative accounting to survive because their leaders can't better their products or services functions?  Keep asking until you find reciprocation. Where are the future economic borders that will give reciprocation? How will we define our requisite communities: nationally, regionally, genetically, racially, linguistically, geographically, personally, culturally, religiously, intellectually, or ethnically? What will make us function again?

To begin to find out, criticize a BMW owner until you find out what it will take to get him to dislike his beloved luxury property. Whatever it is will be used to banish luxury property from our desires through economic reciprocation, and whatever enables that will be how we must define our new communities. As it was with the first political revolutions in Europe against the political royalty that were justified through Christian theology, our first attempts at change, such as Occupy Movement, or The Tea Party, will use our existing foundations as justification. However, those first political revolutions didn’t last, so revolutionaries created and followed a state of nature, natural rights philosophy that was not connected to the established Christian theology of the date, but was thought of in reaction to the new circumstances of the new technology of the gun that bore civic virtue in soldiers who used local political power to protect their own political communities because the gun made all men equal.

Therefore, what will define our economic communities won’t be connected to a single definition or belief we have now. No one knows what our new foundations will look like, but for now, you can ask the BMW owner, or better yet the BMW’s operator, and then ask if a central bank’s money should be lent to purchase it or if a police officer’s efforts should be wasted protecting something that isn’t a need; that, despite self-indulgence, stagnates our technological development; and that does not reciprocate, so is morally wrong—and you’ll see genuine confusion/anger as that question attacks a part of the human psyche very few even know can be changed because it is the foundation of life2.

Remember, again, that as the political peasants placed their heads on actual chopping blocks, the political royalty never even tried to apologize. They were so convinced they justly had control of the society’s political capital, making right on their side. Nobody told those royals that their job was done because no right, like no species, is everlasting. In Europe, it wouldn’t have mattered if the royalty dethroned themselves because even once rid of, the people kept bringing them back for decades. Our foundations define us more than the will to live and (almost) the will to be free. However, if you read this, you’ll see it changing right before our eyes. As in nature, adaption just takes time, and it requires encountering failure, that creates the problems a new set of species/technology/foundations solve. People’s minds are reflections of their technology, and war/competition is new technology being adapted to via evolution. Thus sadly, our foundations will be the last thing to change, but it should be the first place change should start to make ours a functioning society. Our society is, however, now non-functioning, and we are just beginning to adapt it to digital technology, which is why this economic crisis is only the beginning. Perhaps however if an attack is made pre-emptively, smartly, strategically, against the economic royalty and we bring economic tithes and growth rates down fast enough to create a social surplus again with a new society hell bent on throwing away the consumer for an economic citizen, history will not repeat itself so bloodily, and evolution will jump ahead without too much conflict.

We shall see. If not, oh well tis’ but a single life spent thinking, and as I’ve argued above; such is life. Here’s to enjoying a few drinks after a job done.

Cheers.

1 There is a book, Red Plenty (2012), that uses historical records, and fictional narratives, to compile an account of the Soviet Union’s downfall. I bought it, but can’t get myself to read it. It mimics the book I wanted this one to be in 2007-2010, but couldn’t pull off. I imagine Red Plenty’s story is quite similar to our life now in the West.

2 Investigating the human psyche is fun. The process is like a particle accelerator. Shock the conscious mind with innocent questions, and it will reveal its component parts, or its subconscious. The subconscious is the real motivator of a person’s actions and beliefs. I tried to show this is some short stories of a comedian because comedy is similar. People can’t choose to laugh, our mind has to be shocked by making a connection between multiple conscious points, that when brought together reveal a new level of understanding and sometimes laughter. I’ll showcase this a lot more in No More Magic part II.
