
# CHAPTER TWO - THE BACKSTORY

## Your Backstory

The American Revolution was finally over. After 18 years of war, the divine British nobility swallowed their pride, admitted they lost. The and met their once colonial subjects in France to sign the Treaty of Paris in 1783. Of course the British were too proud to sit for the official painting with the "commoner" Americans. It didn't matter; America was the protagonist who rose above the ruling philosophy, changed it, and won a free country with a ruling philosophy of "all men are created equal".

The French nobility deserve some credit for the big win. They sent their military to help the Americans, which turned the tide at the all important battle of Yorktown. When hosting the after party the French nobility toasted to their success while giggling at the British for being "camera shy", or whatever the term is for avoiding painted portraits.

The French extras weren't giggling. They were listening. The returning French soldiers had some captivating stories. French taverns, halls, and tennis courts filled with the extras banquets and balls. Mental chains broke across the nation as a symphony of simple questions were asked; "So Rousseau's ideas weren't nuts?", "The people are in chains?", "We can break these damn chains?" The once scared, tired, and beaten French extra grinned as they realized they could make the fairy tale stories of liberty, equality, and community, come true.

Surprise! The French people had their own revolution just six years after the American peace was signed.

Now the world, through European and American, was about to get a new ruling philosophy. The new tools of books, guns, and scientific instruments changed the rules. In particular free-speech, gun ownership, separating church and state, and government checks and balances were written into Constitutions; which replaced the Holy Bible as the ultimate written authority to make the rules. It wasn't perfect; early America had slavery for crying out loud, yet the seeds of liberty were planted and nobody could, or did, stop their growth.

This is your ruling philosophy today. The one you need to change with techvolution. Here's the backstory of prior changes to tell us how that should look.

## Where Our Ruling Philosophy Comes From

So let's look at the situation so far. Rome covered the known world with a civilzation and a religion, and then got fragmented. Western Rome was isolated and chaotic until strong Germanic warriors established kingdoms, using Christianity to cement their rule as divine hereditary nobles. Concentrating political security into a noblility let western society advance into Western Civilization. Western Europe was strong enough to send crusades against barbarians in Eastern Europe (this time Lithuaisns were the barbarians), and against Muslims in the once Roman Holy Land to try and spread their now distintt ruling philosophy. Western European crusaders even sacked "heretical" Eastern Rome's capital Constantinople in 1204, and dealt their old cousins a nearly mortal wound.

Regardless, at the end of the High Middle Ages, around 1300, Western Europe had a distinct civilization, with healthy agriculture, stable politics, the first universities, and relative peace. While not as good as the _Roman Peace_, it was the best time to be alive in Europe since.

Now what. What's the natural course of action. Would the leaders emulate Athenian democracy, or Roman Republicism and return citizenship, rights, and dignity to the masses? Nope. Not least because they didn't know about that stuff; they had few books back then. And besides, Athens and Rome were small towns when they experimented with their unique ruling philosophies, and worse neither ruling philosophy lasted that long anyway. The Kingdoms of Western Europe were huge and had millions of subjects. All of who depended on feuldalism to survive. So no changes were made to society's dependable ruling philosophy. Noble divinity stayed absolute.

Europe didn't have much time to think about it anyway. Everything went to hell starting in 1317 when Europe entered into the terrible Late Middle Ages. Europe had several huge faminines, large peasant revolts, and the Black Plague; all of which killed half the population in a few decades. Things got so chaotic _Game of Thrones_ is actually based on the Late Middle Ages. While not as bad as Rome's collapse, it was the worse time to be alive since. Now the ruling philosophy definitely wouldn't change. Europe needed to re-establish security as fast as possible. Although there were still technological innovations, like the printing press, the English longbow, and the first cannon's. Life wasn't very good for the average person between 1300-1453.

Their ruling philosophy had many features we'd recognize today. The noble's divine right to rule, no equality, the joining of church and state, peasants with no right to arm themselves, no free-speech, no religious toleration, and the Holy Bible as the supreme authority on society's DNA. Nothing was weird for the people living it. Feudalism worked.

With strict conformity to the system. Conformity made the security that fueled everyone's betterment, from peasant farmers, to preaching priests, to even princesses waiting for the prince. Unfortunately, there wasn't a happy ending to this fairy tale. Each stake of the ruling philosophy would die byway of revolution.

## Set Up

Instead of detailing the history, here's a simple observation to explain it. Darth King kept the power of new tools for himself. The longer time went, the more art filled European society got. The "props" of the triangle were increasingly flamboyant. Look up art of early nobles like Charles Martel or Charlemagne and they're wearing body armor. Starting around 1450 or so, their descendents like Louis XIV or Charles I are wearing dresses.

Once warrior kings inspiring divine loyalty, became bureaucratic kings whose spending sprees were justified by being a living god. Civilization establised a government with courts for justice, ministries to build roads, collect taxes, approve research, and ambassadors to meet with foreign dignataries. Kings were basically executives administering with meetings, paperwork and their whim.

When nobles started wearing dresses, government was like it was in Roman times; a full civilization. The nobles stories were totally different from 800 to 1450. The dresses highlight the massive changes in technology. Each new technology made the nobles divine right to rule suspect. Guns made knights armour useless. Cannon's made castle's a liability. Mass printed books made knowledge common. Technology was fundamentally changing society, yet the only thing that didn't change was the title of noble, and the ruling philosophy that justified the nameplate of kings and queens, dukes and duchesses.

Thus, starting around 1450, the nobles were antagonists resisting changes to the ruling philosophy. Instead of spreading the fruits of a growing civiization, the nobles turned castles into palaces, gave guns only to their soldiers, and censured books. And worst, rather than forming a lasting peace in a world without raiding barbarians, the nobles told their armies to battle for the nobles personal glory in dozens of useless wars. They called this useless search for personal glory "gloire".

They used the fruits of new technology to surround themselves in opulance that increasingly deluded them into thinking they helped society's by just being born, going to war, and spending lots of money on themselves. Whatever rationale they needed to come up with, like not paying taxes, avoiding civil responsibilities, or using the religion of a poor carpenter to rationalize their aged ruling philosophy, they did. They were like celebrities who are famous for being famous. The nobles gave themselves trophies, titles, ceritifications, and honours, merely by participating in their increasingly common banquets and balls that turned the people into Cinderella dreaming their days away, wondering when they were going to get a piece of the cake.

Society's protagonists became those who could see through this bullshit. They set out to change the backstory of noble divinity to be aligned with new technology. Different people in science, medicine, and politics would rise above. They were usually poor, oppressed, and had a fascination with nature as they started down the road to dismantle society's ruling philosophy. We take note to help us do the same for you

## Renaissance

Everything in Western Europe changed in 1453. That's when (Eastern) Rome finally fell to the Turks. Happily for Western Europe, eastern Rome never lost the love of Greek philosophy the West has largely forgotten about. When so many Greek scholars fled the Turks, they flooded into still superstituous Western Europe. These Greeks supercharged the young Renaissance. If you've ever visited Vatican City, Florence, or Milan you've seen the huge changes Western Europe was in for.

The Greek philosophy of Socrates, Plato, and Aristotle teaches many things. Some of it turned out to be wrong, like the Earth being the centre of the Universe, but Greek Philosophy is still the most important thing to learn in human history. Because no philosophy will always be right, the important thing is to be honest about mistakes, learn from them, and if need to, good deep and question the philosophy you had when making a mistake. The ability to self-correct makes a ruling philosophy great.

In all of human history so far, Greek philosophy is the best at questioning everything, most of all, itself. Probably because it was started by Socrates, who pissed off the rulers in Athens so much they put him on trial for "irreligion and corrupting the youth". During his trail Socrates responded to the charges by saying he should be rewarded with a state pension for asking to many helpful questions about Athens' ruling DNA. Instead he was executed. Thus, Greek philosophy's own DNA lets anyone, question anything. Getting persecuted for questions is a compliment.

Thus, when Greek philosophy arrived in Western Europe it asked profound questions and starting calling bullshit a lot. The countless DNA points of the ruling philosophy were rethought. The new questions all had the same theme; using Christianty to underpin a ruling philosophy was weird. Stripping away the religion of a poor carpenter from the nobles divine right to govern, deterimine scientific truth, tell commoners to "stay in their place", and making priests the source of all knowledge, was tough. Yet Greek philosophy started doing it anyway.

Yet revolutions don't just need new questions, they need new answers enabled by new tools. Eastern Rome and Islam had studied Greek Philosophy for centuries, but they both didn't have the tools Europe started to get in the Renaissance. Among the most important was the printing press (1439), musket (1500), telescope (1608) and microscope (1610). These, and so many others, helped protagonists not only question the ruling philosophy, but revolutionize it.

Today we call this new ruling philosophy "modernity". A age of humanity we live in because many protagonists fought to overturn, and create a fundamentally new ruling philosophy, still partially rooted in the Holy Bible, but based on more accurate truths about nature give to us by modern technology. Modernity didn't burden Christianty to fill the gaps in our DNA. Because we finally had the real answers about nature, using science.

## Modernity

The first modern protagonist was Niccolo Machiavelli (1469-1527). Like most modern protagonists he was poor, but his father got him many books from the recent printing press, and mixing a commoner upbriging with a great education proved itself again to be the best gift a parent can give. Machiavelli read much Greek and Roman history and philosophy and soon thought religion was over used in his time. This helped him be the first person to see through Europe's ruling philosophy. Machiavelli foresaw a new ruling philosophy where humanity overcomes problems, by using human reason to build new tools. So instead of using a "nobles divine right to rule" and blaming "God's Will" for human problem, society can organize itself into republics with governments designed to give a country both security and freedom.

Machiavelli gave many examples of wise leaders like Julius Caesar who would adjust their actions to situations. Religion was a crutch, and now an especially unneeded crutch for a society with the printing press and scientific instruments. Humanity could master the many misfortunes of nature with modern tools.

If, Machiavelli said, humanity were to wise up, and ignored the "imagined world" of the old ruling philosophy and judge human actions for their "effectual truth" on making the real-world better or not based on problems on the frontline. Machiavelli called for new "modes and orders" to make Europe more rational. He wanted Europe to throw away it's irrelevant ruling philosophy and instead embedded the possibiliiies of new technology into a new ruling philosophy.

People slowly started to understand what Machiavelli meant, and his call for "effectual truths" was answered. Soon enough a chorus of people who, like him, started to question the ruling philosophy in astronomy, religion, medicine, politics, and more. As ever more technologies got invented and adopted throughout Europe, new modern thinkers like Francis Bacon developed the Scientific Method, which was a systematic way to test and find effectual truth. Starting with Copernicus's _On the Revolutions of the Celestial Spheres_, scientists like Galileo, Kepler and Newton overcame much religious opposition from the ruling philosophy when they participated in the Scientific Revolution (1543-1687).

There were many battles, but scientific truths replaced religious ones inside Western Civilization's scienctific DNA. And Christianity was itself liberated from having to answer questions it simply wasn't meant to. Alas, it was these scientists, inspired by Machiavelli, who set the standard for furture movements against the divine rights of the nobility ruling philosophy.

## Modernity On Hold

Unfortunately, despite "effectual truth" winning in the natural sciences, during the Scientific Revolution the nobles still wore dresses in their palaces while they hosted even more banquets and balls. Ironically, many of the parties were celebrating their funding of science. Thus, European politics remained unchanged for generations. As the extras felt empowered by their new tools, they used political Christianity to justify their uprisings like Oliver Cromwell's puritan Christians in the English Civil Wars.

## Political Protagonists in The Age of Enlightenment

The Scientific Revolution discovered many wondrous details of the universe. Things like the Earth revolves around the Sun, human anatomy, and the laws of motion. Scientists made using the Holy Bible the basis of all human thought look silly. While most of these scientists were faithful Christians in their personal beliefs, they advocated using science as humanity's new and improved ruling philosophy for understanding how the natural world worked. They were thus revolutionaries.

And it was in their tradition of questioning the natural world, that spawned the Age of Enlightenment (1687-1789). The Enlighenment was when humanity itself "wised up" by directing scientific questions to better understand not just nature, but human nature.

Now Thankfully, it wasn't long before dress wearing, banquest obsessed, cake eating, self-described divine nobles, were under the spotlight of effectual truth.

Thomas Hobbes (1588-1679), writing during the chaos of the English Civil Wars, started the long process to give Europe a new political ruling philosophy. He started it by defending an absolute monarchy, saying a super strong government is better than chaos. No surprise there. we already learned how important political stabilityi is. Hobbes said everyone should obey one king, who he called Leviathan, to avoid the anarchy that makes human life that is "solitary, poor, nasty, brutish, and short." This may not seem new, but it was.

Because how Hobbes justified his nobility was monumental. Like Machiavello, Hobbes disliked religion, so he didn't use the "divine right to rule". Instead, he said humanity is naturally, in our State of Nature, equal. The State of Nature is a place without government, where we're all equal because... well whose to say otherwise. Hobbes biggest proof of our equality is, without government, we can all kill each other with our ability to scheme, plot, and murder. So to keep everyone from killing each other, the people should forfeit their natural rights of equality to a Leviathan to ensure everyone's peace through subjucation.

Thus, _the King_ and _the People_, would have a social contract with each other. One based on equality, that ends in complete tyranny, but that guarantees everyone's security, which as we've learned before is the soil that grows a healthy civilization. This reasoning, believe it or not, started the liberalism that we have today. From constitutions, to the right to own property like race cars, and the right to control ones body with abortions, all guaranteed by the social contract between the people, and the government. Guaranteed if these rights didn't threaten the country's all important security.

We'd recognize this liberalism better after reading John Locke (1632-1704). Locke agreed with Hobbes Locke put the brakes on a single person having all the power. Instead, Locke said the people should arm themselves, government should be elected, divided, and constitutional. Locke says it's too idealistic to expect one person to be Leviathan. If power corrupts, then absolute power corrupts absolutely. Thus, Locks says its best to divide government's Leviathan powers up, and make them battle each other, to prevent a government that's worst than the anarchy it's supposed to get rid of.

Locke's philosophy is behind our written constitutions, bills of rights, elected governments, citizens right to bear arms, checks and balances between executives, elected legislatures, lawful judges, freedom of speech, and freedom of religion. Mass printed books, guns, scientific instruments and many others, were enshrined by Locke into society's DNA, via constitutions, which finally replaced the Holy Bible as society's ultimate reference guide for our ruling philosophy. Most people today live under Locke's Leviathan.

Rousseau (1712-1778) somewhat agreed with Locke and Hobbes. Rousseau agreed humanity is naturally equal, but said humanity is only murderous in a society. If a thinker goes back farther into human nature and history, they'd find happy-go-luck hunter gatherers who weren't filled with the envy, jealously, or anxiety of modern humans living under "fake" or oppressive ruling philosophies. This is where the Rousseau's new philosophy, "Man is born free; but everywhere he is in chains" that we discussed earlier came from. Rousseau says yes society needs a social contract, but one that harnesses the natural goodness of humanity.

Rousseau thus keeps Hobbes' social contract, but wants to create a new person to live inside it. Rousseau's Leviathan is not concentrated into a single person, or even a checked and balanced government, but is distributed throughout society via direct democracy. Meaning there are no representatives of government inside a nobility, or a elected representatives. Instead, all people who live under the all powerful Leviathan, also control the Leviathan.

To have this new society, requires a totally "new person". Someone who can give responsible commands to society, while accepting the rules society gives back. Both Rousseau's idealism, and Locke's practicality, was the basis of the American and French Revolutions. Since Rousseau, many societies have tried to make his ideal world come true. Sadly, unlike with Locke's the technology hasn't existed yet to make it practical.

But alas, these political protagonists did for politics what Galileo and Newton did for astronomy. They gave people a fundamentally different way to view the world, and thereby change the ruling philosophy's DNA. Now unlike when the New Model Army in the English Civil War, the common people had a different political philosophy to fight for.

And fight they did. The nation-states Europe created in 1648, were democratized inside revolutions. This meant the nobles and the political revolutionaries were using two completely different ruling philosophies. Which is why the nobles simply couldn't see such massive changes a head.

## Political Protagonists in Power

Once Locke and Rousseau's ideas spread, nation states emerged from the feudal kingdoms. Wars continued to decline, because once the extras fighting the wars on the battlefield, is ruling their society, they don't tend to want more wars than absolutely necessary. Empowering the people breeds collaboration not competition.

Politically free democracies, while not uniform, or everywhere, are now the norm in the world. The ruling philosophy dreamed by Machiavelli, Hobbes, Locke, and Rousseau, was also dreamed by many Cinderella's, and made real by the people into a new ruling philosophy with many revolutions.

Democractic countries now collaborate so well the time since World War II is called _The Long Peace_; the longest period of prosperity in the world since Imperial Rome's _Roman Peace_. The grand story to return peace to the western Rome has finally concluded. Now Cinderella just needed her glass slipper.

## Your Ruling Philosophy

Humans keep solving problems. We invented new tools to solve political insecurity, mastering nature, and the ruling philosophies this tools need to prosper. The reason we spent so much time understanding the rise and fall of kingdoms, is because this story is very similar to ours, except this time kingdoms were called companies.

Here is where your own ruling philosophy comes from. One that mixes the political freedoms of Lock, Rousseau and Jefferson, but includes the philosophy of economic kingdoms that share much in common with their deceased political cousins. Our ruling philosophy is called liberal free-market economics. It has political liberties and freedoms, but also strict economic obligations of feudal hierachies that replaces the "nobles divine rights to rule", with its "divine rights of property owners". And, in the human timeline you are politically free, but economically bound in chains, in pre-revolution American and France, waiting for a Rousseau to inspire you to freedom.

## Our Rulng Philosophy - Part I - Free Markets

Towards the end of feudalism, Europe invented some cool technology. Among them was the quadrant, sandglass, nocturnal, and most important, the huge "ships of sail" you've seen in pirate movies. All this technology meant ships could store lots of food and water, navigate at night, and travel against the wind. Europe's leaders wanted this because when Eastern Rome fell in 1453, so did Europe's access to the famed spice road to India. Thus, it wasn't long until the European nobility sent explorers in their new ships to find a new route to India. They left 1492, but discovered a new world instead.

Western Civilization was more advanced than everyone else. It spread throughout the world. Using an economic system called mercantalism. Merchantalism was a subserviant relationship where European home countries like Britain, used their colonies, like America, for their abundant natural resources. Home countries imported natural resources like wood, cotton, and sugar, and made stuff like furniture, shirts and refined sugar. The home countries would buy some of this stuff, and then sell the rest to their own colonists. This cycle of importing natural resources, and exporting finished goods, happened in all European countrise and their colonies.

Merchantalism believed economic borders were required. As a result, European home countries almost never traded with each other. Merchantalism assumed a mutually beneficial relationship between countries couldn't exist. So the only way to increase a country's economy was through alliances and war. Hence the web of alliances in wars like the War of the Spanish Succession (1701–1714), War of the Austrian Succession (1740–1748), and the Seven Years War (1756-1763).

Happily two protagonists eventually called merchantalism bullshit; Adam Smith (1723-1790) and David Ricardo (1772-1823). These enlightenment thinkers realized to rid the world of poverty, society needed to create much better technology, and that meant massive concentrations of resources into new castles called factories. Factories are the centres of power for the new economic kingdoms/companies. And like how castles let individuals play a character like baker, craftsman, and peasant. Factories let individuals throw away their feudal roles, and play even more productive characters, like millwright, weaver, machinist, engineer, and toolmaker.

However, one hiccup was borders. No country, no matter how big, could ever have enough resources to build all these new factories. Thus for any country to conquer poverty with companies and factories, they needed to share the burden. They did this by starting a new ruling philosophy to let companies conquer poverty, Europe needed to open the political borders. Only a world without economic borders would let the world unite inside the ruling philosophy of world wide economic growth.

Smith and Ricardo merchantalism with "free-market economics" using mathematics. They discovered the great economic possibilities of a mutually beneficial relationship. Because the trade between countries, who each fostered their own companies and factories, would enable much more production and thereby grealy increase the wealth of all nations.

Trade help economic growth so well because it promotes economic specialization via "comparative advantage". The math shows if countries build companies and factores that only make a few products, like England with textiles companies and Germany with toolmaking companies, they can produce more stuff of a higher quality. Even if a country could be self-sufficient, it still mathematically makes sense to build specialized factories, mass-produce, and trade. Free-market economics was the fastest way to grow the new technologies that would conquer the economic anarchy causing the world's poverty.

When countries slowly opened their borders to trade, a company, a entity seperate from political control, was allowed to operate whereever it wanted to. Barriers like borders, language, culture didn't get in the way. Now, like seeds blowing in the wind, whichever markets a company could reach, grow in, and estabilsh themselves, they could compete in.

Unsurprisingly, the First Industrial Revolution (1760-1840), swept through the world on the back of free-market economics. New inventions kept getting invented. For the first time since animals were domesticated and steel was forged, humanity had access to fundamentally new tools; machines, chemicals, the loom, steam power, water power, and the rise of the mechanized factory system.

Countries moved from basic farming and scrapping by, to building factories that opened up a new world. Farmers, the descendents of feuldal peasants, moved from their small plots of land, to get jobs inside massively growing cities. Factories, and soon office buildings, replaced castles as the bringers of security. Those people who got inside, i.e. were hired, were protected from economic uncertainty. People lined up, hoping to get the chance to obey their new economic nobility inside a economic social contract. If workers help grow the economy, they can do whatever they want with their payment. Which was usually buy stuff like a stove, car, radio, or computer, and fuel more growth.

Free-market economics worked out great. Massive production of steam engines, cloth weaving, iron production, telegraphs, railroads, and so much more, kept getting faster, with more products made at a higher quality. And companies lead the charge to conquer poverty. Companies were like tribes, competing for survival in a wide open, anaric landscape, knowing the winners would establish kingdoms.

After the first battles were fought, the new tools empowered the even stronger Second Industrial Revolution (1870-1914) The stakes were higher. The winners knew they'd be like Charlemagne, and establish lasting kingdoms. The resulting economic war was fierce. Many tribal companies you've never heard of like Rock Oil, and Scranton Iron Furnaces, lost to companies headed by kings you might have heard of like John D. Rockefeller (1839-1937) and his Standard Oil, Andrew Carnegie (1835-1919) and his U.S. Steel Corporation, and J.P. Morgan (1837-1913) and his J.P. Morgan.

The wars to establish economic kingdoms didn't stop. The world still had much poverty. There was much economy left to grow. So new poverty killing technologies kept getting invented. Tractors, water pumps, vaccines, cars, calculators, all had new factories, with new kings sitting atop them as companies established themselves overtop the remains of so many dead tribes. Henry Ford (1863-1947), Bill Hewlett (1913-2001), David Packard (1912-1996), and Thomas Edison (1847–1931) and many other kings sat atop of new kingdoms for cars, power generation, electrical components, and telecommunications.

These economic kingdoms had a hierarchy like feudalism. Let's compare how they worked. Political nobles owned everything inside their realms, so do the owners of companies. They owned the property, the tools, the products, the copyrights, and freely decided who will access their castle/factory/office building.

The next rung down the hierarchy is the knights, the ones who protect the kingdoms and factories. Nation-states were happy to protect their, and the world's, factories. But economically protection was different. Brigades of lawyers, accountants, and university graduates, defended and attacked other kingdoms using the laws and finances of massive corporations.

Then there's the gentry, who ran the day to day operations for the nobilty. In economics these were managers and supervisors, who have the same skills as workers, but were graced with a bit of freedom, and thus the drive to maintain the heirarchy's efficiency by keeping the workers in line.

Then there's the peasants. The masses, who wilfuly, and rightfully, forfeited their natural rights of equality, to the new kingdom, in return for economic security. As a result they participated with their microstories to the grand tapestry of life's invention of technology to conquer poverty. They ran the machines, built the power stations, used the computers, which was pumping out so many poverty killing technology.

Oh, what about the priests. Where are the ones telling everyone in the system to stay in their lane. Where are the ones converting non-believers to the holy word of free-market economics. Where are the ones telling everyone only they can read the bible, because it's written in new Latin called mathematics. Say hello to the economists on CNBC. The "C" might as well stand for Catholic.

Like factories liberated people from their feudal roles of baker, or copper, as economics kept getting more secure, more people upgraded their roles. The "self-made" started to rule economics. Now when somebody asked "what do you do for a living" they were really asking "what do you do for a living". Increasinly, Cinderella dreamed of starting her own company, inventing a new tool, and becoming self-made, and hosting her own banquets and balls.

Like before, economic feuldalism, inside free-market economics, worked. Free-trade economics vastly out produced merchantialism. And although different economic systems have been tried since (mainly communism and facism which both tried to make Rousseau's new man, one using social engineering, the other genetic. Both were pure evil), nothing has come close to matching the economic growth of free-trade economics. That's why its spread across the globe, and survived even as the political empires that brought it have long fallen by way of political revolutions. And that's why free-market economics is one half of your ruling philosophy.

## Our Rulng Philosophy - Part II - Liberalism

Now for the political part of our ruling philosophy. After civil government returned to Europe and castles were made useless by canon's and mortars, the political nobility didn't have a reason to be in control of society anymore. Not that they saw that. The nobles still competed for their personal profit. These distrasous war achieved little because in the grand story of life, political institutions were already working well. So life didn't need noble "owners" to be in control, and power should therefore have been return to the people.

Sadly, it took the words of Locke, Rousseau and Jefferson to inspire the people to claim their governments in revolutions that spanded the glode.  However, once the people were in control, they needed new philosophies to guide them when making society's new DNA.

Here enter's the infamous conservatives and progressives. While they hate each other today, they both share the same purpose; what's the best way to manage the DNA of a political free, economically poor, society that's working really hard to raise the divine offspring of property owners to help conquer poverty byway of new technologies.

Conservatives have their own answer, originally written by Edmund Burke in 1790. Conservatism values tradition, and only wants changes byway of prudent adjustments to society's DNA based on practical experience. Conservatives thus want to slowly distribute the political and economic power of the rich and powerful. Slow and steady wins the race for a conservative. That's why Burke supported America's Revolution, and hated the French one. America was customizing British sensibilities to a new land and had a nearly blank DNA. The French Revolution on the other hand was trying to remake a 1,000 year old societal DNA; changing it all of a sudden would make society collapse and chaos take hold. Burke thus predicted America would flouish in liberty, while France would struggle through chaos and dictatorships. He was right, although France eventually got it right after a few decades.

The father of progressives is John Stuart Mill who wrote his textbook on progressvism in 1859. Mill's the opposite of Burke. While Burke says go slow and steady and only make prudent adjustments to society, Mill says to go fast because the living shouldn't have to wait for cranky old conservatives. Mill's asked why should an oppressed person be patient with their oppression? Liberty, and the progress towards more liberty, should thus be extended now to minorities, the needy, the oppressed etc.

This choice between going slow like a consevative, and going fast like a progressive is seen in every political issue in western politics. From health-care reform, to immigration, to gay marriage, to tax-policy, stock-market regulation, to everything. However, since conservatives and progressives drive together on the road of economic growth, just disagreeing on the speed of giving wealth and liberties to persons, is why they're both liberals with roots in Hobbes's, Locke's, and Rousseau's social contract.

Since they make such a big show today about hating each other, I started calling progressives and consertives _ProCons_. It's a way to not be tricked into thinking their hate makes them different. In fact they agree on almost everything; free-speech, right to bear arms, seperation of church and state, and checks and balances that their shared revolutions fought for. They disagree on details like what speech is not allowed, who should bear arms, and the organization of checks and balances. But these are extremely minor details to non-believers.

The greatest thing ProCons share is managing the ongoing poverty killing technological our ruling philosophy is designed to create. ProCons both harbour, foster, and encourage economic growth by encouraging companies across political borders. While conservatives obsesses over wealth generation and de-regulation, and progressives obsesses over wealth distribution and regulation, they both agree giant corporations should exist across countries, that they own all the property, and the average person should work for them to get their economic security.

ProCons even work together to help these economic kingdoms do business. Progressives shower new people's, either in untapped external markets like China, or untapped internal people like men who don't moisturize, with talk of inclusiveness, tolerance, and diversity to keep up the supply of cheap labour and new consumers. After the Pros open a new market, conservatives move in with their love of business, profit, and wealth, and supply poverty killing technology and start up new factories. This is how extremely strong oil, car, engineering, computer, software, construction companies span the globe as political empires once did. The system of liberal free-market economics is in full swing supported by ProCons everywhere. That's why liberalism, is the other half of your ruling philosophy.
