
# Polar Bears in the Amazon

If you were to see camels in the Amazon, polar bears in Syria, tree frogs in Mongolia, or desert fox in the Arctic you'd automatically see something wrong. Not with the lifeform, we take our kids to visit these cuties in the zoo, but you'd see a mix-match of a lifeform in a foreign ecosystem.

Now when you see SUV’s in Shanghai, daily newspapers in England, American McMansions, coal power-plants in the Sunshine State, and another Spider Man playing throughout the world, you wouldn't the same mix-match. Even though England has few paper mills, China no oil fields, or Americans having no desire build and clean their own mansions. You wouldn't see the same mix-match between lifeform/adaptation and it's ecosystem, because you wouldn't see foriegn lifeforms because you wouldn't see different ecosystems, as you automatically do with a camel in the Amazon.

Now I were to show you daily newspapers in England, gasoline cars in China, or McMansions in America, what would you think? Nothing, despite England have few paper mills, China no oil fields, or Americans having no desire build and clean mansions. You wouldn't see the same mix match between lifeform/adaptation and it's ecosystem. You wouldn't see foriegn lifeforms because you wouldn't see different ecosystems.

That's because right now, our society is still stuck in the immediate growth part of economics. The grasses, weeds, and ferns that life rushes in, so it'll secure itself against entropy. The stiff competition, and ownership of property rights are exactly what happened in politics and economics. With politics it happened after Clovis I to Charlemagne secured Western Europe after Rome's collapse. To create the grasses, weeds, and ferns, humanity was forced into strict roles of feudal king, priest, knight, gentry, and peasant. Feudalism fostered the beginnings of political life. The nobilities descendants then passed on their political control right via inheritance, despite the fact the political situation was much different by 1500. Europe actually had enough political freedom, enough political "carrying capacity". Humanity had to enter the political ecosystems via revolutions.

After we did, we have enough carrying capacity left over to make economic grasses, weeds, and ferns. We let economics being owned by the first lifeforms to find prosperity. We encouraged their growth via economic property ownership, which was to be passed on via inheritance. And like in nature, and politics, once we had enough carrying capacity, we will start making economic ecosystems.

But for now we are polar bears trying to live in the Amazon.

## A Very Hot and Stubborn Polar Bear

With our current foundations we cannot see our failings. We cannot express our failings because our foundations do not allow us to question our foundations. For example, in most of our stories of future human societies, we see a society based not on function, but on spectacle used to distract the people from dysfunction. We see dystopias filled with rampant advertisements, powerful corporations abusing weaker individuals, and environmental catastrophe, like in Blade Runner, Alien, or Wall-E, because we don’t question our foundations, and we only see their continuance, resulting in spectacle and degradation (its why futuristic flying cars are so prevalent, as if so much physical transportation will be needed when the digital transportation of letters, schooling, books, videos, soap, and food, are privatized through digital property, disabling the need for individuals to use so many cars to go to pick stuff up. If the technology exists to make a car levitate, are we still going to be hauling Blu-Ray discs bottles of water, paper magazines, car parts, light bulbs, and so forth around a worldwide production system, or will we figure out how to make things locally using streamed video, water purification, 3D printing, emailing, and computerized indoor farms?). When we dream of our future, however, we break our ties to our foundations, we imagine a functioning society with new foundations more in tune with Star Trek, where technology just works to fulfill our needs as was just dreamed above in replacing cars by producing our needs locally. It is why William Shatner changed the modern world and why we must question our foundations. As of now, we do not question, so we do not adapt; hence, we suffer. Thus, our economies are inefficient and unnatural. Unwilling to separate from our circumstances, we are essentially camels trying to live in the Amazon.

- Counter to economist/comparative advantage priests, what place in line do they have in the world market banquest buffet.
- Duplication/cloning/world government/world markets...
