
# Summary

We've come quite a way in the story Stargazer. So let's take a minute and recap what we need to know. I'm going do this with three stories.

The first is from a BBC Earth documentary. Most people know lions hunt together in prides and take down large animals with teamwork while cheetahs instead use pure speed to catch small prey by themselves. Well, some cheetah's have learned to hunt in groups to take down large animals.Their new large prey, particularly ostrich's, are surprised by the adaptation. The ostrichs are paying with their lives because they still don't see cheetahs as a threat. The moral of the story is either the ostriches will learn or slowly die off.

Onto the next story. Race car driving used to be extremely dangerous. In the 1940's and 50's cars were blazingly fast but nobody knew how to keep them on the road. Centre of gravities were high and the cars would often spin out of control. For example, in the 1955 Le Mans race, 83 spectacators died when a car flew into the stands after a crash. Car racing was banned in several countries because of the disaster.

In 1956 a race car driver and engineer named Michael May thought of a solution. He put a big wing on top of his Porsche race car and pointed it down. The downforce gave his car far more grip to stay on the road. His better handling won him his first race with a car that was much safer. Seems like a "win win" doesn't it. Except Porche's factory team got Michael's innovation declared against the rules. The attack on innovation worked until 1963 when another driver bucked the rules and used the wing again. By the 1970's downforce was heavily studied science in car racing, becoming so iconic it's mimicked today with "spoilers" on performance road cars.

Now for the last story. Humanity has many martial arts: karate, kickboxing, wrestling, jiu-jitsu, judo, and boxing being among the most common today. Each of these disciplines use the same human body but teach certain techniques like punching or choke-holds to defeat their opponents. Each discipline creates rules so only their techniques are allowed in competitions; there's no kicking in a boxing match for example.

In the early 1990's the fight community started to ask whose martial art would win a real fight. On reflection, it seems funny that this was an original idea, but before the 1990's people just assumed boxers or wrestlers weren't allowed to fight outside their rulebook. Fighters were supposed to be ideologically loyal to their discipline, even if getting their ass kicked in a real fight.

After hosting many "no rules" tournaments, the most popular being the Ultimate Fighting Championship, the fight community found the best martial art. None of them, or all of them. Meaning the best fighters were ones who trained all disciplines, and used whatever technique they thought would defeat their opponent based on the exact moment they were fighting them. A large toolbox of techniques and an open mind to adapt proved to be the best martial art. This realization was the start of Mixed Martial Arts (MMA) which is so effective its practioners will defeat any other kind of fighter.

As we embark on a journey Stargazer, here's what we should remember from these three stories. The middle-class has many systematic problems that keep getting worse. Today we think a red or blue ideology will solve them. We fight each other with arguments over "free-market" versus "government regulation" with honest intentions of improving the world. We even elect our government representatives based on red/blue and judge them according to ideological purity and not how effectively they solved our real-world problems.

And this is why the middle class keeps getting our asses kicked. Because we care about rule books and not results. But Nature doesn't care about rule books. It cares about quick adaptions. The cheetah's learned that, the ostriches are trying to, and we learned it when realizing MMA is the best martial art.

That's what Techvolution is. It's a rebellion inside your mind that says life isn't a ideological fight anymore than a streetfight is a boxing match. That doesn't mean we burn all past knowledge. Today's red/blue ideologies can teach us things the same way ancient philosophies and religions can. But none of them should be the ruling philosophy when going to work or electing a government.

Because to solve our problems we have to transform our entire way of life with digital tools. Human life won't be a utopia with Techvolution as a ruling philosophy. Techvolution is work. It requires feeling frontline pain and finding a solution with a new tool. But once we're free to do that, in our mind and in society, we'll start to actually see results. And to boot, work will mimick open-source; being less about delegators and garbage meetings, and more about workers and contributions.

Today ideologies call out "socialists" or "intolerant" to non-believers. Yet we've all seen bosses not allow telecommuting, force us to use old tools they understand, or spend hours on garbage meetings and say nothing. Until we called our "Darth Blockbuster" to these antagonists they'll keep using their Death Star to suppressing innovation; even simple ones like spoilers on racing car. The result will be more of the same. Middle-class problems will continue to pile-up like ostrichs getting caught by cheetahs. Except it'll be our heads are in the sand. That sad image aside, let's go back on our journey to change our societ's ruling philosophy.
