
## Digital Heroes

It's hard to pin down the start of a technological age. There's always some argument about when a trend starts. There is also a range for the Digital Age, but I'm using 1970. That's when science fiction became real products. Personal computers, the internet, and online collaboration all go their start in the early 1970's.

That's why with every purchase, renovation, and Christmas gift since, we've been upgrading our society with a fundamentally different technology. Computers can be programmed, updated, and inter-linked. A single laptop can be a typewriter, radio, voice recorder, book, television, photo album, database, and so many other machines. In contrast, mechanical tools are single-use, can't be easily shared, and have to be regulated to ensure whoever controls them considers society's best interest.

Even though they're different, digital tools have been brought up within the Industrial Age's philosophy. Its a philosophy meant to encourage the growth of mechanical tools via relentless worldwide competition. Digital devices enable a new philosophy. One that fosters collaboration. And working together online is our future because it saves us from redundant work. For example, with Wikipedia, the world can use one website for its general knowledge, instead of reprinting, shipping, and buying millions of encyclopedia books every year.

Several generations from the start of the Digital Age, items like smartphones, laptops, and smartwatches are so standard, the collaboration philosophy they foster is become part of our average days. That's why WikiHow, IMDB, YouTube integrate so easily integrate into our lives. Collaboration is today's big picture, the basic principle of the Digital Age's new philosophy. The people who see this best is the open-source community.

Open-source is a community digital inventors, designers, and programmers. They are the successors of the first digital protagonists, the Jedi leading us into the Digital Age. They live, breath, and promote, collaboration at places like GitHub, Wikipedia, Dribbble, Udemy, Stack Overflow, Unsplash, and Slack.

Open-source has given the world the Digital Age. Even if the world doesn't know it yet. Most people on the frontline still think that retail stores, manufacturing, and education are industries only for governments or big businesses to control. Yet, because of the open-source community, there are countless new tools available for the people to take control of their own products, identities, and lives. It's truly a new world. One were Cinderella can stop praying for a fairy godmother, walk off of Main Street, and go straight into the ball simply because... everyone's invited.

The open-source community has busted down technological gates of the Industrial Age. They've empowered the people to share in our society's economic prosperity. Look around. Note the parents educating their own children on Khan Academy, the moms learning how to repair iPads for extra cash thanks to YouTube videos, the artists selling their own products on their own Wordpress websites, and the laid-off workers using Rails to make their own apps. Digital tools cut out the Industrial Age middle-man and empower regular people to work for themselves and collaborate with each other.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1oo59slGufc
_This is Louis Rossmann. He repairs computers. He saves his customers lots of money. He advocates computers should be easy to repair—like all electronics once were. Manufacturers, particularly Apple, make it hard to repair our computers because they'd rather we replace them. Louis posts videos to get his message out. He also teaches others how to open up their own repair business. You don't have to agree with him, or support "right to repair". The point is because of digital technology and open-source he easily collaborates with supporters. Another example of real politics._

All this collaboration is thanks to the open-source community. They've empowered people used to be extras in the Industrial Age hoping for a better life; to become protagonist player gods in the Digital Age making a better life.

I'm one of them. I'm a politics, history, and philosophy geek. Digital tools let me to research, write and host my own work. Better yet, I can find and work with world-class writers and illustrators to make that work even better. A few decades ago, I'd be in a library scribbling notes on cue cards and dreaming up ways to get a professor, publisher, or newscaster to look my way.

As a kid, I helped my family clean office buildings. My easy role was to pick up the garbage and blue bins. It was very simple. Years later, when working at a big office, the cleaners were short-staffed for a few weeks. Management spent hours meeting about and discussing the "garbage problem" instead of just wrapping it up (pun intended) and moving on.

Mass producing clothes, cars, airplanes requires lots of coordination. It's understandable that building, using, and staffing mechanical tools need lots of managers. However, today software can now replace much of that manageral work and let workers cooridinate with each other.

<div style='position:relative; padding-bottom:calc(76.67% + 44px)'><iframe src='https://gfycat.com/ifr/ObedientNiftyBlackbear' frameborder='0' scrolling='no' width='100%' height='100%' style='position:absolute;top:0;left:0;' allowfullscreen></iframe></div><p> <a href="https://gfycat.com/obedientniftyblackbear">via Gfycat</a></p>

Today's excessive management is a holdover from an age gone by. Only out of habit do our workplaces over-value control and delegation instead of contribution and collaboration. Excessive management turns leaders into gatekeepers. They seek to hold tickets and manage who'll "get access" to things like news services, retail stores, formal education, and especially the higher "positions" of corporate employment. Today's there's an entire class of middle-men, consultants, managers, and executives who don't know the skills of their industry like nursing, teaching, and (definitely not) cleaning. Their power is to manage the gates of an Industrial Age technology.

Comparing this world to the open-source community is like comparing the Stone Age to the Iron Age. The open-source community works together to make, improve, and open-up access to technology. Usually, the community collaborates on core technology, and then its members use it to create specialized products. For example, open-source creates MediaWiki software, and then separate groups use MediaWiki to host Wikipedia, WikiHow, and Fandom. Since there's no patents or positions to fight over, everyone has incentive to defer to the better answer.

This is not to say that open-source communities are perfect. Some people are too rude, projects die off, personalities clash, and so forth. In _The Innovators_, author Walker Isaacson explains how the trifecta of academia, corporations, and militaries was optimal for creating the digital revolution. Likewise, it was government, enterprise, and open-source organizing structures that worked to keep that revolution going. Open-source is only a part of bringing the Digitial Age to life.

That said, it's the vital piece.

Precisely because nobody owns its technology. Server software, operating systems, web apps, and countless other software is free to use. That means Industrial Age gatekeepers can't stop digital inventors pushing us into the Digital Age. Whether it's with a simple rotating list of persons to take out the trash. A online encyclopedia with millions of helpful articles. Or software to give society internet streaming. As when a few hackers tore down "Darth Blockbuster's" gate when he tried to keep us all buying and borrowing his VHS tapes and DVDs.

Thus, calling open-source contributors Jedi's isn't a fantasy. They are modern minutemen. They promote and enable individual empowerment and collaboration. They should be self-sufficient and very well-funded. But they are not. So many people in the open-source community who write articles, answer forum questions and make programs do it as a hobby, not a job. Even their leading organizations need donations to stay afloat. Meanwhile, old tools such as universities, television broadcasters, and insurance companies get massive subsidies, tax credits, and bailouts.

This difference between how the old and new tools are treated signifies our society's great problem. Just when we should be jumping into the Digital Age, open-source heroes have to work against the odds to dismantle the gates Industiral Age antagonists are paid to maintain.

Once upon a time, I only wanted to learn about the open-source fight. Now I want to empower its protagonists. Telecommuting, the right to repair, home power generation, and real internet privacy are just the tip of the iceberg. A better world is waiting once the open-source community has the resources to not only make new digital tools but to replace old Industrial Age tools. The open-source community must get political, get mad, and learn to be selfish. Because today's battle is a tale as old as time, and as classic as the most universally told stories of New Age versus Old Age. Protagonists versus antagonists. Jedi versus Sith.

The most dangerous thing right now is ignorance. People don't know about open-source or the future they're fighting for. The people are stuck on "right vs. left" or "red vs. blue" politics. Red/blue leaders tout their horns, and the believers march and yell like it's Woodstock in 1969, because that was the end of the Industrial Age, and hence was the peak of their philosophy. The Woodstock way of life of single detached homes, 9-5 jobs, gas cars, long commutes, retail shopping, centralized power stations, and advertisement funded nightly news is glorified memory. It's no wonder Main Street has suffered from outsourcing, micro-managing, and climate change when the political stage fights to keep the past alive.

The open-source community doesn't march for change. Their digital tools force it. I worked hard to turn their collaboration mindset into a new political philosophy, which I call Techvolution. It's custom-made for open-source and the Digital Age. It combines centuries of historical and philosophical lessons most people don't have the time to read. It cuts through today's political jargon with terms like "Darth Blockbuster," the "Death Star Rulebook," and "Jedi vs. Sith". So people can ask themselves the most important political question of our time.

It's not the worn-out and drab, "Am I for red or blue politics?" Instead, it's something far more powerful and relevant: "Am I going to step up, and bring my society into the Digital Age?"

To do it, they have to believe in a new philosophy. One that rewards workers, creators, and collaborators—basically, the people who are willing to become player gods of the Digital Age.
